docs/mp/metrics/01_introduction.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= Metrics
:toc:
:toc-placement: preamble
:spec-name: MicroProfile Metrics
:description: {spec-name} support in Helidon MP
:keywords: helidon, mp, microprofile, metrics

== This page is Under Construction and will be available soon

Commit message:

Fixed SE Config Guide typos from issue 1649 (#1993)
* added link to mp jpa guide and API

* updated with Laird's changes

* new intro for mp metrics

* fixed typos per issue 1649

docs/mp/metrics/01_introduction.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= Metrics
:toc:
:toc-placement: preamble
:spec-name: MicroProfile Metrics
:description: {spec-name} support in Helidon MP
:keywords: helidon, mp, microprofile, metrics
:h1Prefix: MP

== Overview
Helidon provides three types of metrics: base, vendor, and application.  Helidon automatically provides built-in base and vendor metrics.
Applications can use these metrics without additional configuration or code changes.

== Next Steps

Learn more about https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-metrics/releases/tag/2.0[MicroProfile Metrics specification].

Create a sample MicroProfile (MP) project that can be used to run some basic examples using both built-in and custom metrics with Helidon MP. <<mp/guides/05_metrics.adoc, Helidon MP Metrics Guide>>.
