docs/se/config/01_introduction.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2018, 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.config/io/helidon/config

= The Configuration Component
:h1Prefix: SE
:description: Helidon config introduction
:keywords: helidon, config

The config component provides a Java API to load and process
configuration properties from various sources into a `Config` object which the
application can use to retrieve config data.

== Getting Started

=== Introducing the Config System
A brief overview of the config system helps clarify its different parts
and how they work together. Most applications will typically deal with more
than one of these parts.

image::config/overview.png["Configuration Overview",align="center"]

These are the main parts of the configuration system:

- `Config` system - allows you to read configuration data in an application
- A config source - a location containing configuration data (File, Map, Properties etc.)
- A config parser - a component capable of transforming bytes into configuration data (such as JSON content, YAML etc.)

The `Config` system handles configuration data in an in-memory tree that represents the configuration structure and values.

This approach allows us to take any source data, be it a flat properties file or an object structure such as JSON, and
transform it into a single tree that allows for overriding of values using heterogeneous config sources.

We are using the `.` as a separator of tree structure.

Example of two config sources that can be used by `Config` with the same data tree in different formats:

A Properties source:
[source,properties]
----
web.page-size=25
----

A YAML source:
[source,yaml]
----
web:
  page-size: 25
----

The configuration has the same internal representation in `Config` and can be accessed using
the `Config` API as follows:
[source,java]
----
int pageSize = config.get("web.page-size")
        .asInt()
        .orElse(20);
----

Or using the tree node approach:
[source,java]
----
int pageSize = config
                .get("web")
                .get("page-size")
                .asInt()
                .orElse(20);
----

For this first example we can see the basic features of `Config`:

- Configuration is a tree of `Config` nodes
- You can use `.` as a tree separator when requesting node values
- Each config value can be retrieved as a typed object, with shortcut methods for the most
    commonly used types, such as `int`, `String`, `long` and other
- You can immediately provide a default value for the cases the configuration option is not defined
    in any source

=== Your First Config Application
An easy way to start with the link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/Config.html[Config] API
is to follow these four steps:

1. <<maven-coords,add config-related dependencies to your `pom.xml`>>
2. <<update-module-info, revise your `module-info.java` to refer to config (if you are using Java 9+)>>
3. <<create-simple-config-props, create a simple config properties file>>
4. <<Config-Basics-DefaultConfig, retrieve and use the default `Config` from your app>>

==== Add Maven Dependency on Config [[maven-coords]]
[source,xml]
.Config Dependency in `pom.xml`
----
<dependencies>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>io.helidon.config</groupId>
        <artifactId>helidon-config</artifactId>
        <version>version-of-config-you-are-using</version>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
----

==== Update `module-info.java` [[update-module-info]]
If you are using Java 11 then create or update the `module-info.java` file for your application:
[source,java]
.Config Dependency in `module-info.java`
----
module myModule {
    requires io.helidon.config;
}
----

==== Create simple Config Properties File [[create-simple-config-props]]
[source]
.Example `src/main/resources/application.properties` config file
----
greeting = Hello

web.debug = true
web.page-size = 20
web.ratio = 1.3

bl.initial-id = 10000000000

origin = props
java.home=homeFromProps # will be ignored
----

==== Write Code using the Default Config [[Config-Basics-DefaultConfig]]

[source,java]
.Create and Use Default `Config` from Java
----
import io.helidon.config.Config; // <1>
...
Config config = Config.create(); // <2>
System.out.println(String.format(
        "greeting is %s\n"
                + "web.debug is %b\n"
                + "web.page-size is %d\n"
                + "web.ratio is %f\n"
                + "bl.initial-id is %d\n"
                + "origin is %s\n"
                + "java.home is %s",
        config.get("greeting").asString().orElse("Default greeting"),  // <3>
        config.get("web.debug").asBoolean().orElse(false),
        config.get("web.page-size").asInt().orElse(50),
        config.get("web.ratio").asDouble().orElse(2.0),
        config.get("bl.initial-id").asLong().orElse(1L),
        config.get("origin").asString().orElse("defaults"),
        config.get("java.home").asString().get())); // <4>
----
<1> Import `Config`.
<2> Create the root of the `Config` tree from the default sources.
<3> Retrieve various values by their dotted names and decode them as the appropriate
Java types, providing default values if the property is missing.
<4> Retrieve the value (and fail with a runtime exception if missing)

When you build and run your project, the output will look like this:
[source]
----
greeting is Hello
web.debug is true
web.page-size is 20
web.ratio is 1.300000
bl.initial-id is 10000000000
origin is props
java.home is /Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk-10.0.1.jdk/Contents/Home
----


=== Overriding Values

The `Config` system treats config sources as a hierarchy, where the first source that
has a specific configuration key "wins" and its value is used, other sources are not even queried for it.

For example the default configuration when you use `Config.create()` uses the following config sources:

1. System properties config source
2. Environment variables config source
3. A classpath config source called `application.?` where the `?` depends on supported media types
    currently on the classpath. By default it is `properties`, if you have YAML support on classpath,
    it would be `application.yaml`

Let's consider the following keys:

1. System property `answer=42`
2. Environment variable `ANSWER=38`
3. A key in a configuration file `answer=36`

When you request `config.get(`answer`).asInt().orElse(25)`, you would get `42`

This allows you to configure environment specific configuration values through
system properties, environment variables, or through files available on each environment (be it
a physical machine, a Kubernetes pod, or a docker image) without changing your source code.

=== Built-in Support for Config Formats [[built-in-formats]]
If you add additional Helidon config maven artifacts to your dependencies, then the
config system can read formats other than Java properties format and the default
configuration will search for other `application` file types
in the following order. Note that the default configuration _stops_ once it finds
one of the files below; it _does not_ merge all such files it can find.

.Default Config Files (most to least important)
|===
|Source |Helidon maven artifact ID (group ID: `io.helidon.config`) |Notes

|`application.yaml` |`helidon-config-yaml` |YAML format http://yaml.org
|`application.conf` |`helidon-config-hocon` |HOCON format https://github.com/lightbend/config#using-hocon-the-json-superset
|`application.json` |`helidon-config-hocon` |JSON format https://json.org/
|`application.properties` |`helidon-config` |Java properties format
|===


=== Config Filters

Config system applies configured _config filters_ on each value when it is requested
for the first time.

There is a built-in filter called `ValueResolvingFilter` (enabled by default, can be disabled through API)
 that resolves references to other keys in values in configuration.

Example:
Let's consider the following example properties file
[source,properties]
----
host=localhost
first-service.host=${host}/firstservice
second-service.host=${host}/secondservice
----

The filter resolves the `${host}` reference to the `localhost` value.

This makes it easier to override values in testing and production, as you can just
override the `host` key and leave the URIs same.

=== Change Support

Config is an immutable in-memory tree. Nevertheless we know that configuration sometimes changes,
 and we may want to react to such changes.

In `Config` system, you can do this through change support provided by these components:

1. `Config.onChange()` API - you can use to add your listener, to be notified of configuration changes
2. `PollingStrategy` - a component providing regular events to check if a source has changed. This
        requires support in config sources themselves (see `PollableSource`)
3. `ChangeWatcher` - a component watching the underlying source for changes. This requires support
        in config sources themselves (see `WatchableSource`)
4. `EventConfigSource` - an event source that is capable of notifying about changes iteslf


If you want to receive `onChange` events, you must configure your Config with at least one source that is capable of providing changes (having a `PollingStrategy` or `ChangeWatcher` configured, or implementing `EventConfigSource`)

=== Typed config values

The `Config` object lets your application retrieve config data as a typed ConfigValue.

You can retrieve a `ConfigValue<T>` using the following `as` methods in `Config`:
* `asString()` - to get a string config value
* `asBoolean()` and other accessors for primitive types
* `as(Class)` - to get a value for a type that has a mapper configured
* `as(Generic)` - to get a value for a type supporting generics (such as `Set<String>`)
* `asMap()` - to get a map of key to value pairs
* `asList(Class)` - to get a list of typed values
* `as(Function<Config,T>)` - to get a typed value providing a mapper function

ConfigValue<T> can be used to obtain:
* an `Optional<T>` value _from a single node_,
* the `T` value _from a single node_ interpreted as a basic Java type (primitive or simple object) already known to the config system (such as a `boolean` or a `Double`), or
* a complex Java type _from a subtree_ of the config tree.
+
The config system automatically knows how to return `List` and `Map` complex types, and you can provide _config mappers_ to convert a config subtree to whatever
Java types your application needs.

== Next Steps
Although the default configuration is very simple to use, your
application can take as much control as it needs over

* loading configuration data,
* accessing the data once loaded, and
* extending and modifying the behavior of the config system.

You do this by:

* creating and invoking methods on a `Config.Builder` object to construct a `Config` instance
+
Using a builder, the application can control everything about how the config
system creates the resulting `Config` instance: config sources, parsers, polling strategy,
filters, overrides, mappers, whether or not environment variables and Java
system properties serve as config sources. The JavaDoc explains how to use the 
link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/Config.Builder.html[`Config.Builder`].
+
or
* creating a <<config/06_advanced-configuration.adoc#Config-Advanced-metaconfig,meta-configuration>>
file on the runtime classpath or file system to control how the config system prepares the
default configuration.

Once created, the `Config` object provides many methods the application can use to 
retrieve config data as various Java types. See the link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/Config.html[`Config`]
JavaDoc for complete details.

The links in the following tables lead you to more information about various 
other config topics.

.Controlling How Config is Loaded
|===
| Topic |Documentation

| Where config comes from |<<config/02_config-sources.adoc,Config sources>>,
<<config/06_advanced-configuration.adoc#metaconfig,meta-configuration>>
| What format config data is expressed in |<<config/02_config-sources.adoc#parsers,Config parsers>>, 
<<config/08_supported-formats.adoc,supported formats>>
| How to filter, override, and dereference values |<<config/06_advanced-configuration.adoc#filters-and-overrides,Filters and overrides>>
| What happens when config data changes |<<config/05_mutability-support.adoc#polling,Config polling>>
| How to deal with loading errors |<<config/02_config-sources.adoc#retry,Config retry policies>>
|===

.Accessing Configuration Data
|===
| Topic |Documentation

| How config data is translated into Java types |<<config/04_property-mapping.adoc,Config mappers>>
| How to navigate config trees |<<config/03_hierarchical-features.adoc,Navigation>>
|===

.Extending and Fine-tuning the Config System
|===
| Topic |Documentation 

| Writing extensions |<<config/07_extensions.adoc,Extensions>>
|===

Commit message:

Support for custom default config file suffixes (#2717)
* Support for custom default config file suffixes
* Added integration tests to validate yml/yaml loading order

Signed-off-by: Tomas Langer <tomas.langer@oracle.com>

docs/se/config/01_introduction.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2018, 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.config/io/helidon/config

= The Configuration Component
:h1Prefix: SE
:description: Helidon config introduction
:keywords: helidon, config

The config component provides a Java API to load and process
configuration properties from various sources into a `Config` object which the
application can use to retrieve config data.

== Getting Started

=== Introducing the Config System
A brief overview of the config system helps clarify its different parts
and how they work together. Most applications will typically deal with more
than one of these parts.

image::config/overview.png["Configuration Overview",align="center"]

These are the main parts of the configuration system:

- `Config` system - allows you to read configuration data in an application
- A config source - a location containing configuration data (File, Map, Properties etc.)
- A config parser - a component capable of transforming bytes into configuration data (such as JSON content, YAML etc.)

The `Config` system handles configuration data in an in-memory tree that represents the configuration structure and values.

This approach allows us to take any source data, be it a flat properties file or an object structure such as JSON, and
transform it into a single tree that allows for overriding of values using heterogeneous config sources.

We are using the `.` as a separator of tree structure.

Example of two config sources that can be used by `Config` with the same data tree in different formats:

A Properties source:
[source,properties]
----
web.page-size=25
----

A YAML source:
[source,yaml]
----
web:
  page-size: 25
----

The configuration has the same internal representation in `Config` and can be accessed using
the `Config` API as follows:
[source,java]
----
int pageSize = config.get("web.page-size")
        .asInt()
        .orElse(20);
----

Or using the tree node approach:
[source,java]
----
int pageSize = config
                .get("web")
                .get("page-size")
                .asInt()
                .orElse(20);
----

For this first example we can see the basic features of `Config`:

- Configuration is a tree of `Config` nodes
- You can use `.` as a tree separator when requesting node values
- Each config value can be retrieved as a typed object, with shortcut methods for the most
    commonly used types, such as `int`, `String`, `long` and other
- You can immediately provide a default value for the cases the configuration option is not defined
    in any source

=== Your First Config Application
An easy way to start with the link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/Config.html[Config] API
is to follow these four steps:

1. <<maven-coords,add config-related dependencies to your `pom.xml`>>
2. <<update-module-info, revise your `module-info.java` to refer to config (if you are using Java 9+)>>
3. <<create-simple-config-props, create a simple config properties file>>
4. <<Config-Basics-DefaultConfig, retrieve and use the default `Config` from your app>>

==== Add Maven Dependency on Config [[maven-coords]]
[source,xml]
.Config Dependency in `pom.xml`
----
<dependencies>
    <dependency>
        <groupId>io.helidon.config</groupId>
        <artifactId>helidon-config</artifactId>
        <version>version-of-config-you-are-using</version>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
----

==== Update `module-info.java` [[update-module-info]]
If you are using Java 11 then create or update the `module-info.java` file for your application:
[source,java]
.Config Dependency in `module-info.java`
----
module myModule {
    requires io.helidon.config;
}
----

==== Create simple Config Properties File [[create-simple-config-props]]
[source]
.Example `src/main/resources/application.properties` config file
----
greeting = Hello

web.debug = true
web.page-size = 20
web.ratio = 1.3

bl.initial-id = 10000000000

origin = props
java.home=homeFromProps # will be ignored
----

==== Write Code using the Default Config [[Config-Basics-DefaultConfig]]

[source,java]
.Create and Use Default `Config` from Java
----
import io.helidon.config.Config; // <1>
...
Config config = Config.create(); // <2>
System.out.println(String.format(
        "greeting is %s\n"
                + "web.debug is %b\n"
                + "web.page-size is %d\n"
                + "web.ratio is %f\n"
                + "bl.initial-id is %d\n"
                + "origin is %s\n"
                + "java.home is %s",
        config.get("greeting").asString().orElse("Default greeting"),  // <3>
        config.get("web.debug").asBoolean().orElse(false),
        config.get("web.page-size").asInt().orElse(50),
        config.get("web.ratio").asDouble().orElse(2.0),
        config.get("bl.initial-id").asLong().orElse(1L),
        config.get("origin").asString().orElse("defaults"),
        config.get("java.home").asString().get())); // <4>
----
<1> Import `Config`.
<2> Create the root of the `Config` tree from the default sources.
<3> Retrieve various values by their dotted names and decode them as the appropriate
Java types, providing default values if the property is missing.
<4> Retrieve the value (and fail with a runtime exception if missing)

When you build and run your project, the output will look like this:
[source]
----
greeting is Hello
web.debug is true
web.page-size is 20
web.ratio is 1.300000
bl.initial-id is 10000000000
origin is props
java.home is /Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk-10.0.1.jdk/Contents/Home
----


=== Overriding Values

The `Config` system treats config sources as a hierarchy, where the first source that
has a specific configuration key "wins" and its value is used, other sources are not even queried for it.

For example the default configuration when you use `Config.create()` uses the following config sources:

1. System properties config source
2. Environment variables config source
3. A classpath config source called `application.?` where the `?` depends on supported media types
    currently on the classpath. By default it is `properties`, if you have YAML support on classpath,
    it would be `application.yaml` (a `ConfigParser` may add additional supported suffixes for default file)

Let's consider the following keys:

1. System property `answer=42`
2. Environment variable `ANSWER=38`
3. A key in a configuration file `answer=36`

When you request `config.get(`answer`).asInt().orElse(25)`, you would get `42`

This allows you to configure environment specific configuration values through
system properties, environment variables, or through files available on each environment (be it
a physical machine, a Kubernetes pod, or a docker image) without changing your source code.

=== Built-in Support for Config Formats [[built-in-formats]]
If you add additional Helidon config maven artifacts to your dependencies, then the
config system can read formats other than Java properties format and the default
configuration will search for other `application` file types
in the following order. Note that the default configuration _stops_ once it finds
one of the files below; it _does not_ merge all such files it can find.

.Default Config Files (most to least important)
|===
|Source |Helidon maven artifact ID (group ID: `io.helidon.config`) |Notes

|`application.yaml` |`helidon-config-yaml` |YAML format http://yaml.org
|`application.conf` |`helidon-config-hocon` |HOCON format https://github.com/lightbend/config#using-hocon-the-json-superset
|`application.json` |`helidon-config-hocon` |JSON format https://json.org/
|`application.properties` |`helidon-config` |Java properties format
|===


=== Config Filters

Config system applies configured _config filters_ on each value when it is requested
for the first time.

There is a built-in filter called `ValueResolvingFilter` (enabled by default, can be disabled through API)
 that resolves references to other keys in values in configuration.

Example:
Let's consider the following example properties file
[source,properties]
----
host=localhost
first-service.host=${host}/firstservice
second-service.host=${host}/secondservice
----

The filter resolves the `${host}` reference to the `localhost` value.

This makes it easier to override values in testing and production, as you can just
override the `host` key and leave the URIs same.

=== Change Support

Config is an immutable in-memory tree. Nevertheless we know that configuration sometimes changes,
 and we may want to react to such changes.

In `Config` system, you can do this through change support provided by these components:

1. `Config.onChange()` API - you can use to add your listener, to be notified of configuration changes
2. `PollingStrategy` - a component providing regular events to check if a source has changed. This
        requires support in config sources themselves (see `PollableSource`)
3. `ChangeWatcher` - a component watching the underlying source for changes. This requires support
        in config sources themselves (see `WatchableSource`)
4. `EventConfigSource` - an event source that is capable of notifying about changes iteslf


If you want to receive `onChange` events, you must configure your Config with at least one source that is capable of providing changes (having a `PollingStrategy` or `ChangeWatcher` configured, or implementing `EventConfigSource`)

=== Typed config values

The `Config` object lets your application retrieve config data as a typed ConfigValue.

You can retrieve a `ConfigValue<T>` using the following `as` methods in `Config`:
* `asString()` - to get a string config value
* `asBoolean()` and other accessors for primitive types
* `as(Class)` - to get a value for a type that has a mapper configured
* `as(Generic)` - to get a value for a type supporting generics (such as `Set<String>`)
* `asMap()` - to get a map of key to value pairs
* `asList(Class)` - to get a list of typed values
* `as(Function<Config,T>)` - to get a typed value providing a mapper function

ConfigValue<T> can be used to obtain:
* an `Optional<T>` value _from a single node_,
* the `T` value _from a single node_ interpreted as a basic Java type (primitive or simple object) already known to the config system (such as a `boolean` or a `Double`), or
* a complex Java type _from a subtree_ of the config tree.
+
The config system automatically knows how to return `List` and `Map` complex types, and you can provide _config mappers_ to convert a config subtree to whatever
Java types your application needs.

== Next Steps
Although the default configuration is very simple to use, your
application can take as much control as it needs over

* loading configuration data,
* accessing the data once loaded, and
* extending and modifying the behavior of the config system.

You do this by:

* creating and invoking methods on a `Config.Builder` object to construct a `Config` instance
+
Using a builder, the application can control everything about how the config
system creates the resulting `Config` instance: config sources, parsers, polling strategy,
filters, overrides, mappers, whether or not environment variables and Java
system properties serve as config sources. The JavaDoc explains how to use the 
link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/Config.Builder.html[`Config.Builder`].
+
or
* creating a <<config/06_advanced-configuration.adoc#Config-Advanced-metaconfig,meta-configuration>>
file on the runtime classpath or file system to control how the config system prepares the
default configuration.

Once created, the `Config` object provides many methods the application can use to 
retrieve config data as various Java types. See the link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/Config.html[`Config`]
JavaDoc for complete details.

The links in the following tables lead you to more information about various 
other config topics.

.Controlling How Config is Loaded
|===
| Topic |Documentation

| Where config comes from |<<config/02_config-sources.adoc,Config sources>>,
<<config/06_advanced-configuration.adoc#metaconfig,meta-configuration>>
| What format config data is expressed in |<<config/02_config-sources.adoc#parsers,Config parsers>>, 
<<config/08_supported-formats.adoc,supported formats>>
| How to filter, override, and dereference values |<<config/06_advanced-configuration.adoc#filters-and-overrides,Filters and overrides>>
| What happens when config data changes |<<config/05_mutability-support.adoc#polling,Config polling>>
| How to deal with loading errors |<<config/02_config-sources.adoc#retry,Config retry policies>>
|===

.Accessing Configuration Data
|===
| Topic |Documentation

| How config data is translated into Java types |<<config/04_property-mapping.adoc,Config mappers>>
| How to navigate config trees |<<config/03_hierarchical-features.adoc,Navigation>>
|===

.Extending and Fine-tuning the Config System
|===
| Topic |Documentation 

| Writing extensions |<<config/07_extensions.adoc,Extensions>>
|===
