docs/se/config/09_config-profiles.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.config/io/helidon/config

= Configuration Profiles
:h1Prefix: SE
:description: Helidon config profiles
:keywords: helidon, config, profile
:toc: preamble
:toclevels: 4

Configuration profiles provide a capability to prepare structure of configuration for each
environment in advance, and then simply switch between these structures using a system property
or an environment variable.

== Profile options
To choose a configuration profile to use at runtime, you can use:

1. A system property `config.profile`
2. An environment variable `HELIDON_CONFIG_PROFILE`

There are two options how to define a profile configuration:

1. Use a config source with a <<#Profile-Source,profile specific name>>
2. Use a <<#Profile-File,profile file>> defining all configuration sources

Configuration profiles can only be used when config is created using the `Config.create()` method without parameters. If you explicitly configure sources, profiles are ignored.

== Profile Config Sources [[Profile-Source]]

In case a profile is specified, config will load the profile specific default configuration source
before the "main" source.

Let's consider the selected profile is `dev`, and we have `yaml` configuration support on classpath;
config will look for the following sources (in this order):

1. `application-dev.yaml` on file system
2. `application-dev.properties` on file system
3. `application-dev.yaml` on classpath
4. `application-dev.properties` on classpath
5. `application.yaml` on file system
6. `application.properties` on file system
7. `application.yaml` on classpath
8. `application.properties` on classpath

== Profile Files [[Profile-File]]

In case a profile is specified, config will look for a profile specific "meta configuration".

Let's consider the selected profile is `dev`, and we have `yaml` configuration support on classpath;
config will look for the following profiles (in this order):

1. `config-profile-dev.yaml` on file system
2. `config-profile-dev.properties` on file system
3. `config-profile-dev.yaml` on classpath
4. `config-profile-dev.properties` on classpath

If any of these files is discovered, it would be used to set up the configuration. In case none is found,
 the config falls back to <<#Profile Config Sources,profile specific config sources>>.

The structure of the file is described below in <<#Profile File Format,profile file format>>.

An example development profile using "inlined" configuration:
[source,yaml]
.Config profile `config-profile-dev.yaml`
----
sources:
  - type: "inlined"
    properties:
      app.greeting: "Hello World"
----

An example of a profile using environment variables, system properties, classpath, and file configuration:
[source,yaml]
.Config profile `config-profile-prod.yaml`
----
sources:
  - type: "environment-variables"
  - type: "system-properties"
  - type: "file"
    properties:
      path: "config/config-prod.yaml"
  - type: "classpath"
    properties:
      resource: "application.yaml"
----

=== Profile File Format [[Config-Profile-Format]]
Configuration profile provides similar options to the configuration builder.
The profile file must contain at least the list of sources to use to load configuration from.

The root `sources` property contains an array (ordered) of objects defining each config source to
be used.
Each element of the array must contain at least the `type` property, determining the
config source type (such as `system-properties`, `file`). It may also contain a `properties`
property with additional configuration of the config source.

==== Built-in Types
The config system supports these built-in types:

.Built-in Types
|===
|Type |Use |Related `ConfigSources` Method |Required Properties

|`system-properties` |System properties are a config source |`ConfigSources.systemProperties()` | n/a
|`environment-variables` |Environment variables are a config source |`ConfigSources.environmentVariables()` | n/a
|`classpath` |Specified resource is used as a config source |`ConfigSources.classpath(String)` | `resource` - path to the resource to load
|`file` |Specified file is used as a config source |`ConfigSources.file(Path)` |`path` - path to the file to load
|`directory` |Each file in directory used as config entry, with key = file name and value = file contents |`ConfigSources.directory(String)` |`path` - path to the directory to use
|`url` |Specified URL is read as a config source |`ConfigSources.url(URL)` | `url` - URL from which to load the config
|`inlined` |The whole configuration tree under `properties` is added as a configuration source (excluding the `properties` node) |n/a |n/a
|`prefixed` |Associated config source is loaded with the specified prefix |`ConfigSources.prefixed(String,Supplier)` a|* `key` - key of config element in associated source to load
* `type` - associated config source specification
* `properties` - as needed to further qualify the associated config source
|===

Except for the `system-properties` and `environment-variables` types, the profile
`properties` section for a source can also specify any optional settings for the
corresponding config source type. The JavaDoc for the related config source
type builders lists the supported properties for each type. (For example,
link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/internal/FileConfigSource.FileBuilder.html[`FileConfigSource.FileBuilder`].)

Here is example profile in YAML format. Note how the `properties` sections
are at the same level as the `type` or `class` within a `sources` array entry.

[source,yaml]
.Profile `config-profile.yaml` illustrating all built-in sources available on the classpath
----
caching.enabled: false
sources:
  - type: "system-properties"
  - type: "environment-variables"
  - type: "directory"
    properties:
      path: "conf/secrets"
      media-type-mapping:
        yaml: "application/x-yaml"
        password: "application/base64"
      polling-strategy:
        type: "regular"
        properties:
          interval: "PT15S"
  - type: "url"
    properties:
      url: "http://config-service/my-config"
      media-type: "application/hocon"
      optional: true
      retry-policy:
        type: "repeat"
        properties:
          retries: 3
  - type: "file"
    properties:
      optional: true
      path: "conf/env.yaml"
      change-watcher:
        type: "file"
        properties:
          delay-millis: 5000
  - type: "prefixed"
    properties:
      key: "app"
      type: "classpath"
      properties:
        resource: "app.conf"
  - type: "classpath"
    properties:
      resource: "application.conf"
----

Note that the example shows how your profile can configure optional features such as polling
strategies and retry policies for config sources.

==== Support for Custom Sources
Profiles can be used to set up custom config sources as well as the built-in ones described above.

Implement the `ConfigSourceProvider`
[source,java]
----
public class MyConfigSourceProvider implements ConfigSourceProvider {
    private static final String TYPE = "my-type";

    @Override
    public boolean supports(String type) {
        return TYPE.equals(type);
    }

    @Override
    public ConfigSource create(String type, Config metaConfig) {
        // as we only support one in this implementation, we can just return it
        return MyConfigSource.create(metaConfig);
    }

    @Override
    public Set<String> supported() {
        return Collections.singleton(TYPE);
    }
}
----

Register it as a java service loader service
[source]
.File `META-INF/services/io.helidon.config.spi.ConfigSourceProvider`
----
io.helidon.examples.MyConfigSourceProvider
----

And in `module-info.java` if using JPMS:
[source,java]
.File `module-info.java`
----
provides io.helidon.config.spi.ConfigSourceProvider with io.helidon.examples.MyConfigSourceProvider
----

Now you can use the following profile:
[source,yaml]
----
sources:
  - type: "system-properties"
  - type: "environment-variables"
  - type: "my-type"
    properties:
        my-property: "some-value"
----

Note that it is the `io.helidon.config.AbstractConfigSource` class that provides support for
polling strategies, change watchers, and retry policies. If you create custom config sources that
should also offer this support be sure they extend `AbstractConfigSource` and implement appropriate
SPI interfaces (such as `io.helidon.config.spi.WatchableSource`) to support such features.

==== Support for Custom Polling Strategies, Change Watchers, and Retry Policies

Your config profile can include the set-up for polling strategies, change watchers, and retry
policies if the config source supports them. Declare them in a way similar to
how you declare the config sources themselves: by `type` and with
accompanying `properties`.

.Config Profile Support for Built-in Polling Strategies
|===
|Strategy Type |Usage |Properties

|`regular`
| Periodic polling - See link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/PollingStrategies.html#regular-java.time.Duration-[`PollingStrategies.regular`] method
|`interval` (`Duration`) - indicating how often to poll; e.g., `PT15S` represents 15 seconds

|===

.Config Profile Support for Built-in Change Watchers
|===
|Type |Usage |Properties

|`file`
| Filesystem monitoring - See link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/PollingStrategies.html#watch-java.nio.file.Path-[`PollingStrategies.watch`] method
| `initial-delay-millis` - delay between the start of the watcher and first check for changes

|===

.Config Profile Support for Built-in Retry Policies
|===
|Policy Type |Usage |Properties

|`repeat`
|Regularly-scheduled - see link:{javadoc-base-url-api}RetryPolicies.html#repeat-int-[`RetryPolicies.repeat`].
a|`retries` (`int`) - number of retries to perform +

Optional:

* `delay` (`Duration`) - initial delay between retries
* `delay-factor` (`double`) - `delay` is repeatedly multiplied by this each retry to compute
the delay for each successive retry
* `call-timeout` (`Duration`) - timeout for a single invocation to load the source
* `overall-timeout` (`Duration`) - total timeout for all retry calls and delays
|===

To specify a custom polling strategy or custom retry policy, implement the interface
and then implement the `io.helidon.config.spi.PollingStrategyProvider`,
`io.helidon.config.spi.ChangeWatcherProvider`, or
`io.helidon.config.spi.RetryPolicyProvider` to enable your custom implementations for
profiles.
You can then use any custom properties - these are provided as a `Config` instance to
the `create` method of the Provider implementation.

See link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/spi/RetryPolicy.html[`RetryPolicy`],
link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/spi/RetryPolicy.html[`ChangeWatcher`], and
link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/spi/PollingStrategy.html[`PollingStrategy`] JavaDoc
sections.

Commit message:

Guide update and support for custom profile file location
Signed-off-by: Tomas Langer <tomas.langer@oracle.com>

docs/se/config/09_config-profiles.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.config/io/helidon/config

= Configuration Profiles
:h1Prefix: SE
:description: Helidon config profiles
:keywords: helidon, config, profile
:toc: preamble
:toclevels: 4

Configuration profiles provide a capability to prepare structure of configuration for each
environment in advance, and then simply switch between these structures using a system property
or an environment variable.

== Profile options
To choose a configuration profile to use at runtime, you can use:

1. A system property `config.profile`
2. An environment variable `HELIDON_CONFIG_PROFILE`

There are two options how to define a profile configuration:

1. Use a config source with a <<#Profile-Source,profile specific name>>
2. Use a <<#Profile-File,profile file>> defining all configuration sources

Configuration profiles can only be used when config is created using the `Config.create()` method without parameters. If you explicitly configure sources, profiles are ignored.

== Profile Config Sources [[Profile-Source]]

In case a profile is specified, config will load the profile specific default configuration source
before the "main" source.

Let's consider the selected profile is `dev`, and we have `yaml` configuration support on classpath;
config will look for the following sources (in this order):

1. `application-dev.yaml` on file system
2. `application-dev.properties` on file system
3. `application-dev.yaml` on classpath
4. `application-dev.properties` on classpath
5. `application.yaml` on file system
6. `application.properties` on file system
7. `application.yaml` on classpath
8. `application.properties` on classpath

== Profile Files [[Profile-File]]

In case a profile is specified, config will look for a profile specific "meta configuration".

Let's consider the selected profile is `dev`, and we have `yaml` configuration support on classpath;
config will look for the following profiles (in this order):

1. `config-profile-dev.yaml` on file system
2. `config-profile-dev.properties` on file system
3. `config-profile-dev.yaml` on classpath
4. `config-profile-dev.properties` on classpath

If any of these files is discovered, it would be used to set up the configuration. In case none is found,
 the config falls back to <<#Profile Config Sources,profile specific config sources>>.

The structure of the file is described below in <<#Profile File Format,profile file format>>.

In case you need to customize the location of the profile file, you can use the system property
`io.helidon.config.meta-config`. For example if it is configured to `config/profile.yaml`,
config looks for file `config/profile-dev.yaml` when `dev` profile is configured.

=== Profile File Format [[Config-Profile-Format]]
Configuration profile provides similar options to the configuration builder.
The profile file must contain at least the list of sources to use to load configuration from.

The root `sources` property contains an array (ordered) of objects defining each config source to
be used.
Each element of the array must contain at least the `type` property, determining the
config source type (such as `system-properties`, `file`). It may also contain a `properties`
property with additional configuration of the config source.

An example development profile using "inlined" configuration:
[source,yaml]
.Config profile `config-profile-dev.yaml`
----
sources:
  - type: "inlined"
    properties:
      app.greeting: "Hello World"
----

An example of a profile using environment variables, system properties, classpath, and file configuration:
[source,yaml]
.Config profile `config-profile-prod.yaml`
----
sources:
  - type: "environment-variables"
  - type: "system-properties"
  - type: "file"
    properties:
      path: "config/config-prod.yaml"
  - type: "classpath"
    properties:
      resource: "application.yaml"
----

==== Built-in Types
The config system supports these built-in types:

.Built-in Types
|===
|Type |Use |Related `ConfigSources` Method |Required Properties

|`system-properties` |System properties are a config source |`ConfigSources.systemProperties()` | n/a
|`environment-variables` |Environment variables are a config source |`ConfigSources.environmentVariables()` | n/a
|`classpath` |Specified resource is used as a config source |`ConfigSources.classpath(String)` | `resource` - path to the resource to load
|`file` |Specified file is used as a config source |`ConfigSources.file(Path)` |`path` - path to the file to load
|`directory` |Each file in directory used as config entry, with key = file name and value = file contents |`ConfigSources.directory(String)` |`path` - path to the directory to use
|`url` |Specified URL is read as a config source |`ConfigSources.url(URL)` | `url` - URL from which to load the config
|`inlined` |The whole configuration tree under `properties` is added as a configuration source (excluding the `properties` node) |n/a |n/a
|`prefixed` |Associated config source is loaded with the specified prefix |`ConfigSources.prefixed(String,Supplier)` a|* `key` - key of config element in associated source to load
* `type` - associated config source specification
* `properties` - as needed to further qualify the associated config source
|===

Except for the `system-properties` and `environment-variables` types, the profile
`properties` section for a source can also specify any optional settings for the
corresponding config source type. The JavaDoc for the related config source
type builders lists the supported properties for each type. (For example,
link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/internal/FileConfigSource.FileBuilder.html[`FileConfigSource.FileBuilder`].)

Here is example profile in YAML format. Note how the `properties` sections
are at the same level as the `type` or `class` within a `sources` array entry.

[source,yaml]
.Profile `config-profile.yaml` illustrating all built-in sources available on the classpath
----
caching.enabled: false
sources:
  - type: "system-properties"
  - type: "environment-variables"
  - type: "directory"
    properties:
      path: "conf/secrets"
      media-type-mapping:
        yaml: "application/x-yaml"
        password: "application/base64"
      polling-strategy:
        type: "regular"
        properties:
          interval: "PT15S"
  - type: "url"
    properties:
      url: "http://config-service/my-config"
      media-type: "application/hocon"
      optional: true
      retry-policy:
        type: "repeat"
        properties:
          retries: 3
  - type: "file"
    properties:
      optional: true
      path: "conf/env.yaml"
      change-watcher:
        type: "file"
        properties:
          delay-millis: 5000
  - type: "prefixed"
    properties:
      key: "app"
      type: "classpath"
      properties:
        resource: "app.conf"
  - type: "classpath"
    properties:
      resource: "application.conf"
----

Note that the example shows how your profile can configure optional features such as polling
strategies and retry policies for config sources.

==== Support for Custom Sources
Profiles can be used to set up custom config sources as well as the built-in ones described above.

Implement the `ConfigSourceProvider`
[source,java]
----
public class MyConfigSourceProvider implements ConfigSourceProvider {
    private static final String TYPE = "my-type";

    @Override
    public boolean supports(String type) {
        return TYPE.equals(type);
    }

    @Override
    public ConfigSource create(String type, Config metaConfig) {
        // as we only support one in this implementation, we can just return it
        return MyConfigSource.create(metaConfig);
    }

    @Override
    public Set<String> supported() {
        return Collections.singleton(TYPE);
    }
}
----

Register it as a java service loader service
[source]
.File `META-INF/services/io.helidon.config.spi.ConfigSourceProvider`
----
io.helidon.examples.MyConfigSourceProvider
----

And in `module-info.java` if using JPMS:
[source,java]
.File `module-info.java`
----
provides io.helidon.config.spi.ConfigSourceProvider with io.helidon.examples.MyConfigSourceProvider
----

Now you can use the following profile:
[source,yaml]
----
sources:
  - type: "system-properties"
  - type: "environment-variables"
  - type: "my-type"
    properties:
        my-property: "some-value"
----

Note that it is the `io.helidon.config.AbstractConfigSource` class that provides support for
polling strategies, change watchers, and retry policies. If you create custom config sources that
should also offer this support be sure they extend `AbstractConfigSource` and implement appropriate
SPI interfaces (such as `io.helidon.config.spi.WatchableSource`) to support such features.

==== Support for Custom Polling Strategies, Change Watchers, and Retry Policies

Your config profile can include the set-up for polling strategies, change watchers, and retry
policies if the config source supports them. Declare them in a way similar to
how you declare the config sources themselves: by `type` and with
accompanying `properties`.

.Config Profile Support for Built-in Polling Strategies
|===
|Strategy Type |Usage |Properties

|`regular`
| Periodic polling - See link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/PollingStrategies.html#regular-java.time.Duration-[`PollingStrategies.regular`] method
|`interval` (`Duration`) - indicating how often to poll; e.g., `PT15S` represents 15 seconds

|===

.Config Profile Support for Built-in Change Watchers
|===
|Type |Usage |Properties

|`file`
| Filesystem monitoring - See link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/PollingStrategies.html#watch-java.nio.file.Path-[`PollingStrategies.watch`] method
| `initial-delay-millis` - delay between the start of the watcher and first check for changes

|===

.Config Profile Support for Built-in Retry Policies
|===
|Policy Type |Usage |Properties

|`repeat`
|Regularly-scheduled - see link:{javadoc-base-url-api}RetryPolicies.html#repeat-int-[`RetryPolicies.repeat`].
a|`retries` (`int`) - number of retries to perform +

Optional:

* `delay` (`Duration`) - initial delay between retries
* `delay-factor` (`double`) - `delay` is repeatedly multiplied by this each retry to compute
the delay for each successive retry
* `call-timeout` (`Duration`) - timeout for a single invocation to load the source
* `overall-timeout` (`Duration`) - total timeout for all retry calls and delays
|===

To specify a custom polling strategy or custom retry policy, implement the interface
and then implement the `io.helidon.config.spi.PollingStrategyProvider`,
`io.helidon.config.spi.ChangeWatcherProvider`, or
`io.helidon.config.spi.RetryPolicyProvider` to enable your custom implementations for
profiles.
You can then use any custom properties - these are provided as a `Config` instance to
the `create` method of the Provider implementation.

See link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/spi/RetryPolicy.html[`RetryPolicy`],
link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/spi/RetryPolicy.html[`ChangeWatcher`], and
link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/spi/PollingStrategy.html[`PollingStrategy`] JavaDoc
sections.
