docs/mp/cors/01_introduction.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= About CORS in Helidon MP
:toc:
:toc-placement: preamble
:pagename: cors-mp-introduction
:description: Helidon MP CORS Support
:keywords: helidon, java, cors, mp, microprofile
:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.microprofile.cors/io/helidon/microprofile/cors
:helidon-tag: https://github.com/oracle/helidon/tree/{helidon-version}
:quickstart-example: {helidon-tag}/examples/quickstarts/helidon-quickstart-mp
:cors-spec: https://www.w3.org/TR/cors/
:helidon-mp-cors-example: {helidon-tag}/examples/microprofile/cors

link:{cors-spec}[Cross-origin resource sharing] (CORS) support in Helidon MP provides a flexible
mechanism that allows a Helidon MP application to control how other web applications can access its resources, even if that web application is not served from the same domain.

== Getting Started
You add CORS support to your application by modifying your JAX-RS resource classes.

. Decide what type of resource sharing each endpoint in your application should allow. +

. {blank}
+
--
Add a dependency on the Helidon MP CORS component.

// tag::add-cors-dependency[]
The <<about/04_managing-dependencies.adoc, Managing Dependencies>> page describes how you
should declare dependency management for Helidon applications. For CORS support in Helidon MP, you must include
the following dependency in your project:
[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.helidon.microprofile</groupId>
    <artifactId>helidon-microprofile-cors</artifactId>
</dependency>
----
// end::add-cors-dependency[]
--
. Edit each resource class in your application. +
 For each subpath in the resource that should support CORS:
.. If you do not already have an `@OPTIONS` method for the subpath, create one.
.. To each `@OPTIONS` method add a `@CrossOrigin` annotation which specifies the CORS behavior
you want for that path.

== Understanding the `@CrossOrigin` Annotation
Using the link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/CrossOrigin.html[`@CrossOrigin`] annotation is the preferred way to configure CORS in Helidon MP.
The following is an example of this annotation:

[source,java]
----
@CrossOrigin(value = {"http://foo.bar", "http://bar.foo"},
             allowHeaders = {"X-foo", "X-bar"},
             allowMethods = {HttpMethod.DELETE, HttpMethod.PUT})
----

This annotation allows the resource associated with it to be shared with the origins `http://foo.bar` and `http://bar.foo`
using `DELETE` or `PUT` and that requests can include the non-standard headers `X-foo` and `X-bar`.

== Revising Your Application

In the link:{quickstart-example}[Helidon MP Quickstart application] you can change the greeting by sending a PUT
request to the `/greet/greeting` resource.
The example below extends the Helidon MP QuickStart application (the greeting app) to:

* Permit unrestricted sharing of the resource that returns greetings, and
* Restrict sharing of the resource that
updates the greeting so that only the origins `http://foo.com` and `http://there.com` can change the greeting.

[source,java]
----
@OPTIONS
@CrossOrigin() // <1>
public void options() {}

@OPTIONS
@Path("/greeting")
@CrossOrigin(allowMethods = {"PUT"}, allowOrigins = {"http://foo.com", "http://there.com"}) // <2>
public void optionsForGreeting() {}
----
<1> Uses the default cross-origin sharing, which permits sharing via all HTTP methods to all origins.
<2> Specifies sharing only via the `PUT` HTTP method and only to the two listed origins.

== Next steps

* Learn how to use configuration. You and your users can use MicroProfile configuration to override the CORS behavior set in
the application code.

* See the Helidon CORS support in action by building and running the link:{helidon-mp-cors-example}[CORS example].

Commit message:

Add note about built-in services page to MP intro page (mirroring the SE intro page)

docs/mp/cors/01_introduction.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= About CORS in Helidon MP
:toc:
:toc-placement: preamble
:pagename: cors-mp-introduction
:description: Helidon MP CORS Support
:keywords: helidon, java, cors, mp, microprofile
:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.microprofile.cors/io/helidon/microprofile/cors
:helidon-tag: https://github.com/oracle/helidon/tree/{helidon-version}
:quickstart-example: {helidon-tag}/examples/quickstarts/helidon-quickstart-mp
:cors-spec: https://www.w3.org/TR/cors/
:helidon-mp-cors-example: {helidon-tag}/examples/microprofile/cors

link:{cors-spec}[Cross-origin resource sharing] (CORS) support in Helidon MP provides a flexible
mechanism that allows a Helidon MP application to control how other web applications can access its resources, even if that web application is not served from the same domain.

== Getting Started
[NOTE]
====
Several Helidon built-in services -- health, metrics, and OpenAPI -- include automatic CORS support as described
<<mp/cors/03_support-in-builtin-services.adoc,separately>>.
====
You add CORS support to your application by modifying your JAX-RS resource classes.


. Decide what type of resource sharing each endpoint in your application should allow. +

. {blank}
+
--
Add a dependency on the Helidon MP CORS component.

// tag::add-cors-dependency[]
The <<about/04_managing-dependencies.adoc, Managing Dependencies>> page describes how you
should declare dependency management for Helidon applications. For CORS support in Helidon MP, you must include
the following dependency in your project:
[source,xml,subs="attributes+"]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.helidon.microprofile</groupId>
    <artifactId>helidon-microprofile-cors</artifactId>
</dependency>
----
// end::add-cors-dependency[]
--
. Edit each resource class in your application. +
 For each subpath in the resource that should support CORS:
.. If you do not already have an `@OPTIONS` method for the subpath, create one.
.. To each `@OPTIONS` method add a `@CrossOrigin` annotation which specifies the CORS behavior
you want for that path.

== Understanding the `@CrossOrigin` Annotation
Using the link:{javadoc-base-url-api}/CrossOrigin.html[`@CrossOrigin`] annotation is the preferred way to configure CORS in Helidon MP.
The following is an example of this annotation:

[source,java]
----
@CrossOrigin(value = {"http://foo.bar", "http://bar.foo"},
             allowHeaders = {"X-foo", "X-bar"},
             allowMethods = {HttpMethod.DELETE, HttpMethod.PUT})
----

This annotation allows the resource associated with it to be shared with the origins `http://foo.bar` and `http://bar.foo`
using `DELETE` or `PUT` and that requests can include the non-standard headers `X-foo` and `X-bar`.

== Revising Your Application

In the link:{quickstart-example}[Helidon MP Quickstart application] you can change the greeting by sending a PUT
request to the `/greet/greeting` resource.
The example below extends the Helidon MP QuickStart application (the greeting app) to:

* Permit unrestricted sharing of the resource that returns greetings, and
* Restrict sharing of the resource that
updates the greeting so that only the origins `http://foo.com` and `http://there.com` can change the greeting.

[source,java]
----
@OPTIONS
@CrossOrigin() // <1>
public void options() {}

@OPTIONS
@Path("/greeting")
@CrossOrigin(allowMethods = {"PUT"}, allowOrigins = {"http://foo.com", "http://there.com"}) // <2>
public void optionsForGreeting() {}
----
<1> Uses the default cross-origin sharing, which permits sharing via all HTTP methods to all origins.
<2> Specifies sharing only via the `PUT` HTTP method and only to the two listed origins.

== Next steps

* Learn how to use configuration. You and your users can use MicroProfile configuration to override the CORS behavior set in
the application code.

* See the Helidon CORS support in action by building and running the link:{helidon-mp-cors-example}[CORS example].
