CONTRIBUTING.md, before:


# Contributing to Project Helidon

We welcome your contributions! There are multiple ways to contribute.

## Discussion

Join us at [#helidon-users](http://slack.helidon.io) and participate in discussions.

## Issues

If you hit a bug or have an enhancement request then file a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/oracle/helidon/issues).
When filing a bug remember that the better written the bug is, the more likely it is
to be fixed. Please include:

1. Version of Helidon
2. Whether you are writing a Helidon SE or MP application
3. OS
4. Version of Docker or Kubernetes or other software if it's relevant to your issue
5. Steps to reproduce

## Code

We welcome code contributions, but we need the contributor to sign the
[Oracle Contributor Agreement (OCA)](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/community/oca-486395.html)
first.

The process:

0. Sign the [OCA](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/community/oca-486395.html)
1. Fork the repo
2. Fix an issue or create an issue and fix it
3. Create a Pull Request that fixes the issue
4. Watch your PR for pipeline results. If there are failures then fix them.
5. We will review your PR and merge as appropriate.

## Code of Conduct

Follow the [Golden Rule](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden_Rule). If
you'd like more specific guidelines see the
[Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct.html)

Commit message:

Updated path reference to fix the broken link. (#2509)
* helidon/2486 - Fix broken links

* Add Dev-guidelines as reference

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:


# Contributing to Project Helidon

We welcome your contributions! There are multiple ways to contribute.

## Discussion

Join us at [#helidon-users](http://slack.helidon.io) and participate in discussions.

## Issues

If you hit a bug or have an enhancement request then file a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/oracle/helidon/issues).
When filing a bug remember that the better written the bug is, the more likely it is
to be fixed. Please include:

1. Version of Helidon
2. Whether you are writing a Helidon SE or MP application
3. OS
4. Version of Docker or Kubernetes or other software if it's relevant to your issue
5. Steps to reproduce

## Code

We welcome code contributions, but we need the contributor to sign the
[Oracle Contributor Agreement (OCA)](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/community/oca-486395.html)
first.

The process:

0. Sign the [OCA](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/community/oca-486395.html)
1. Fork the repo
2. Fix an issue or create an issue and fix it
3. Create a Pull Request that fixes the issue. Follow [DEV-GUIDELINES](DEV-GUIDELINES.md) for a list of rules and best practices followed by project Helidon.
4. Watch your PR for pipeline results. If there are failures then fix them.
5. We will review your PR and merge as appropriate.

## Code of Conduct

Follow the [Golden Rule](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden_Rule). If
you'd like more specific guidelines see the
[Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct.html)
