docs/mp/faulttolerance/01_overview.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= Fault Tolerance Introduction
:pagename: faulttolerance-introduction
:description: Fault Tolerance Introduction
:keywords: helidon, webserver, faulttolerance, mp

Fault Tolerance is part of the MicroProfile set of specifications [1]. This API defines mostly
annotations that improve application robustness by providing support to conveniently handle
error conditions (faults) that may occur in real-world applications. Examples include
service restarts, network delays, temporal infrastructure instabilities, etc.

== Fault Tolerance in Helidon

Fault Tolerance method annotations are internally implemented using _commands_.
Essentially, each Fault Tolerance method invocation runs under the supervision
of one of these commands. Command execution can be affected by certain properties:
some defined by the Fault Tolerance specification and others internal to Helidon.

== Fault Tolerance Configuration
This section describes a few configuration parameters that are specific to Helidon's Fault
Tolerance implementation. The reader is referred to [1] for further information about the
Fault Tolerance MicroProfile API.

The following is a list of config properties supported by Helidon that are
_not_ part of the Fault Tolerance specification:

- `fault-tolerance.commandThreadPoolSize`: Asynchronous commands require the use of a
separate thread pool. Threads created in this pool are named `helidon-ft-async-<N>`.
This config property controls the size of such a pool. The default size is 8.

- `fault-tolerance.threadWaitingPeriod`: A thread that has been interrupted but
is still running (e.g. in a busy loop) has to be waited for. This config property
controls the maximum waiting time in milliseconds. Default value is 2000 milliseconds.

- `fault-tolerance.bulkheadTaskQueueingPeriod`: Time to wait
for a task to be queued on a bulkhead. Default value is 2000 milliseconds.

- `fault-tolerance.delayCorrection`: This is an internal correction applied to
a `@Retry` delay that accounts for the execution of some internal logic in
Helidon. This value will be subtracted from the actual delay. Default is
250 milliseconds.

[1] https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-fault-tolerance

Commit message:

Fix h1Prefix to SE and MP for all pages under /se and /mp respectively. (#2074)
Fix various links and formatting issues across the docs.

docs/mp/faulttolerance/01_overview.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= Fault Tolerance Introduction
:h1Prefix: MP
:pagename: faulttolerance-introduction
:description: Fault Tolerance Introduction
:keywords: helidon, webserver, faulttolerance, mp
:fault-tolerance-spec-url: https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-fault-tolerance

Fault Tolerance is part of the MicroProfile set of {fault-tolerance-spec-url}[specifications]. This API defines mostly
annotations that improve application robustness by providing support to conveniently handle
error conditions (faults) that may occur in real-world applications. Examples include
service restarts, network delays, temporal infrastructure instabilities, etc.

== Fault Tolerance in Helidon

Fault Tolerance method annotations are internally implemented using _commands_.
Essentially, each Fault Tolerance method invocation runs under the supervision
of one of these commands. Command execution can be affected by certain properties:
some defined by the Fault Tolerance specification and others internal to Helidon.

== Fault Tolerance Configuration
This section describes a few configuration parameters that are specific to Helidon's Fault
Tolerance implementation. See the {fault-tolerance-spec-url}[Fault Tolerance MicroProfile API] for more information.

The following is a list of config properties supported by Helidon that are
_not_ part of the Fault Tolerance specification:

- `fault-tolerance.commandThreadPoolSize`: Asynchronous commands require the use of a
separate thread pool. Threads created in this pool are named `helidon-ft-async-<N>`.
This config property controls the size of such a pool. The default size is 8.

- `fault-tolerance.threadWaitingPeriod`: A thread that has been interrupted but
is still running (e.g. in a busy loop) has to be waited for. This config property
controls the maximum waiting time in milliseconds. Default value is 2000 milliseconds.

- `fault-tolerance.bulkheadTaskQueueingPeriod`: Time to wait
for a task to be queued on a bulkhead. Default value is 2000 milliseconds.

- `fault-tolerance.delayCorrection`: This is an internal correction applied to
a `@Retry` delay that accounts for the execution of some internal logic in
Helidon. This value will be subtracted from the actual delay. Default is
250 milliseconds.
