docs/se/oci/01_oci.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.config/io/helidon/oci

= Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Integration
:h1Prefix: SE
:description: Helidon OCI Integration
:keywords: oci
:common-deps-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/dependencies/common_shared.adoc
:feature-name: OCI Integration

Helidon SE OCI Integration provides easy access to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.

== Experimental

WARNING: Helidon integration with Oracle Cloud Infrastructure is still experimental and not intended for production use. APIs and features have not yet been fully tested and are subject to change.

== General Configuration

=== Using Helidon SE Properties Configuration

The first option to configure connection to OCI is to directly specify properties in `application.yaml` file:

[source,yaml]
----
oci:
    config:
        oci-profile:
            user: ocid1.user....
            fingerprint: 1c:6c:....
            tenancy: ocid1.tenancy.oc1..
            region: us-...
            key-pem: <pem content>
----

=== Using OCI Configuration

The second option is via OCI configuration file.
For authentication in OCI a special configuration file should be set up. The file is usually located at `~/.oci/config`

[source,properties]
----
[DEFAULT]
user=ocid1.user....
fingerprint=1c:6c:....
tenancy=ocid1.tenancy.oc1..
region=us-...
key_file=<path to key file>
----

More information how to set up on your environment: https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/API/Concepts/sdkconfig.htm#SDK_and_CLI_Configuration_File[Official website]

Commit message:

New note about the generation of passphrase protected PKCS#1 keys (#3145)
* New note about the generation of passphrase protected PKCS#1 keys.

Signed-off-by: Santiago Pericasgeertsen <santiago.pericasgeertsen@oracle.com>

* Minor text update.

Signed-off-by: Santiago Pericasgeertsen <santiago.pericasgeertsen@oracle.com>

docs/se/oci/01_oci.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.config/io/helidon/oci

= Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Integration
:h1Prefix: SE
:description: Helidon OCI Integration
:keywords: oci
:common-deps-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/dependencies/common_shared.adoc
:feature-name: OCI Integration

Helidon SE OCI Integration provides easy access to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.

== Experimental

WARNING: Helidon integration with Oracle Cloud Infrastructure is still experimental and not intended for production use. APIs and features have not yet been fully tested and are subject to change.

== General Configuration

NOTE: If you follow these instructions on how to
https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/API/Concepts/apisigningkey.htm#two[Generate an API Signing Key],
be advised that Helidon does not currently support passphrase-protected private keys in PKCS#1 format.
If generating a private key using those instructions, use the _no passphrase_ option.

=== Using Helidon SE Properties Configuration

The first option to configure connection to OCI is to directly specify properties in `application.yaml` file:

[source,yaml]
----
oci:
    config:
        oci-profile:
            user: ocid1.user....
            fingerprint: 1c:6c:....
            tenancy: ocid1.tenancy.oc1..
            region: us-...
            key-pem: <pem content>
----

=== Using OCI Configuration

The second option is via OCI configuration file.
For authentication in OCI a special configuration file should be set up. The file is usually located at `~/.oci/config`

[source,properties]
----
[DEFAULT]
user=ocid1.user....
fingerprint=1c:6c:....
tenancy=ocid1.tenancy.oc1..
region=us-...
key_file=<path to key file>
----

More information how to set up on your environment: https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/API/Concepts/sdkconfig.htm#SDK_and_CLI_Configuration_File[Official website]
