docs/se/oci/02_object-storage.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version <2>0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-<2>0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.config/io/helidon/oci

= OCI Object Storage
:h1Prefix: SE
:description: Helidon OCI Object Storage integration
:keywords: oci, objectstorage
:common-deps-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/dependencies/common_shared.adoc
:feature-name: OCI Object Storage

The Helidon SE OCI Object Storage integration provides a reactive API to files stored in Oracle cloud.

include::{common-deps-page-prefix-inc}[tag=maven-dependency]

[source,xml]
----
        <dependency>
            <groupId>io.helidon.integrations.oci</groupId>
            <artifactId>helidon-integrations-oci-objectstorage</artifactId>
        </dependency>
----


== Setting up the Object Storage


In order to use the OCI Object Storage integration, the following setup should be made:

[source,java]
----
Config ociConfig = config.get("oci");

OciObjectStorageRx ociObjectStorage = OciObjectStorageRx.create(ociConfig);
----

Current configuration requires `~/.oci/config` to be available in the home folder. This configuration file can be downloaded from OCI.

`Routing` should be added to the `WebServer`, in our case pointing to `/file`:

[source,java]
----
String bucketName = ociConfig.get("objectstorage").get("bucket").asString().get();

        WebServer.builder()
                .config(config.get("server"))
                .routing(Routing.builder()
                                 .register("/files", new ObjectStorageService(ociObjectStorage, bucketName)))
                .build()
                .start()
                .await()
----

Additionally, in `application.yaml` OCI properties should be specified:

[source,yaml]
----
oci:
    properties:
      compartment-ocid: "ocid<1>tenancy.oc<1>.<..>"
      objectstorage-namespace: "<...>"
      objectstorage-bucket: "<...>"

----

The exact values are available in OCI object storage and bucket properties.

image::oci/ocibucket.png[OCI Bucket, align="center"]

== Using the Object Storage

In the Service we must specify the mapping for CRUD operations with the files and their handlers:

[source,java]
----
@Override
public void update(Routing.Rules rules) {
    rules.get("/file/{file-name}", this::download)
            .post("/file/{file-name}", this::upload)
            .delete("/file/{file-name}", this::delete)
            .get("/rename/{old-name}/{new-name}", this::rename);
}
----

===  Upload file

To upload a file to OCI Object Storage using the `PUT` method:

[source,java]
----
private void upload(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    OptionalLong contentLength = req.headers().contentLength();
    if (contentLength.isEmpty()) {
        req.content().forEach(DataChunk::release);
        res.status(Http.Status.BAD_REQUEST_400).send("Content length must be defined");
        return;
    }

    String objectName = req.path().param("file-name");

    PutObject.Request request = PutObject.Request.builder() <1>
            .objectName(objectName)
            .bucket(bucketName)
            .contentLength(contentLength.getAsLong());

    req.headers().contentType().ifPresent(request::requestMediaType); <2>

    objectStorage.putObject(request,
                            req.content())
            .forSingle(response -> res.send(response.requestId())) <3>
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

<1> Create the `Request` using `PutObject.Request.builder()`
<2> Define `MediaType`
<3> Execute the request to OCI in asynchronous way and put the result in `response` object

=== Download file

To download a file from OCI Object Storage using the `GET` method:

[source,java]
----
private void download(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    String objectName = req.path().param("file-name");

    objectStorage.getObject(GetObject.Request.builder()
                                    .bucket(bucketName)
                                    .objectName(objectName)) <1>
            .forSingle(apiResponse -> {
                Optional<GetObjectRx.Response> entity = apiResponse.entity(); <2>
                if (entity.isEmpty()) {
                    res.status(Http.Status.NOT_FOUND_404).send(); <3>
                } else {
                    GetObjectRx.Response response = entity.get();
                    // copy the content length header to response
                    apiResponse.headers()
                            .first(Http.Header.CONTENT_LENGTH)
                            .ifPresent(res.headers()::add);
                    res.send(response.publisher()); <4>
                }
            })
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

<1> Use `getObject` function to make asynchronous request to OCI Object Storage
<2> The result is of type `Optional`
<3> Whenever the result is empty, return status `404`
<4> Get the response, set headers and return the result as a `Publisher`

=== Rename file

To rename an existing file in the OCI bucket, submit a `GET` method with two parameters:

[source,java]
----
private void rename(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    String oldName = req.path().param("old-name");
    String newName = req.path().param("new-name");

    objectStorage.renameObject(RenameObject.Request.builder()
                                       .bucket(bucketName)
                                       .objectName(oldName)
                                       .newObjectName(newName)) <1>
            .forSingle(it -> res.send("Renamed to " + newName)) <2>
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

<1> Use `renameObject` function and configure a `RenameObject.Request.builder()` to submit the rename request
<2> The request is made in asynchronous way; a `Single` is returned


=== Delete file

Finally, to delete a file, `DELETE` request should be used:

[source,java]
----
private void delete(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    String objectName = req.path().param("file-name");

    objectStorage.deleteObject(DeleteObject.Request.builder()
                                       .bucket(bucketName)
                                       .objectName(objectName)) <1>
            .forSingle(response -> res.status(response.status()).send())
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

<1> Use `deleteObject` function and configure a `DeleteObject.Request.builder()` to submit the delete request
<2> The request is made in asynchronous way; a `Single` is returned

Commit message:

Add experimental warning. Fix copyrights.

docs/se/oci/02_object-storage.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.config/io/helidon/oci

= OCI Object Storage
:h1Prefix: SE
:description: Helidon OCI Object Storage integration
:keywords: oci, objectstorage
:common-deps-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/dependencies/common_shared.adoc
:feature-name: OCI Object Storage

The Helidon SE OCI Object Storage integration provides a reactive API to files stored in Oracle cloud.

== Experimental

WARNING: Helidon integration with Oracle Cloud Infrastructure is still experimental and not intended for production use. APIs and features have not yet been fully tested and are subject to change.

include::{common-deps-page-prefix-inc}[tag=maven-dependency]

[source,xml]
----
        <dependency>
            <groupId>io.helidon.integrations.oci</groupId>
            <artifactId>helidon-integrations-oci-objectstorage</artifactId>
        </dependency>
----


== Setting up the Object Storage


In order to use the OCI Object Storage integration, the following setup should be made:

[source,java]
----
Config ociConfig = config.get("oci");

OciObjectStorageRx ociObjectStorage = OciObjectStorageRx.create(ociConfig);
----

Current configuration requires `~/.oci/config` to be available in the home folder. This configuration file can be downloaded from OCI.

`Routing` should be added to the `WebServer`, in our case pointing to `/file`:

[source,java]
----
String bucketName = ociConfig.get("objectstorage").get("bucket").asString().get();

        WebServer.builder()
                .config(config.get("server"))
                .routing(Routing.builder()
                                 .register("/files", new ObjectStorageService(ociObjectStorage, bucketName)))
                .build()
                .start()
                .await()
----

Additionally, in `application.yaml` OCI properties should be specified:

[source,yaml]
----
oci:
    properties:
      compartment-ocid: "ocid<1>tenancy.oc<1>.<..>"
      objectstorage-namespace: "<...>"
      objectstorage-bucket: "<...>"

----

The exact values are available in OCI object storage and bucket properties.

image::oci/ocibucket.png[OCI Bucket, align="center"]

== Using the Object Storage

In the Service we must specify the mapping for CRUD operations with the files and their handlers:

[source,java]
----
@Override
public void update(Routing.Rules rules) {
    rules.get("/file/{file-name}", this::download)
            .post("/file/{file-name}", this::upload)
            .delete("/file/{file-name}", this::delete)
            .get("/rename/{old-name}/{new-name}", this::rename);
}
----

===  Upload file

To upload a file to OCI Object Storage using the `PUT` method:

[source,java]
----
private void upload(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    OptionalLong contentLength = req.headers().contentLength();
    if (contentLength.isEmpty()) {
        req.content().forEach(DataChunk::release);
        res.status(Http.Status.BAD_REQUEST_400).send("Content length must be defined");
        return;
    }

    String objectName = req.path().param("file-name");

    PutObject.Request request = PutObject.Request.builder() <1>
            .objectName(objectName)
            .bucket(bucketName)
            .contentLength(contentLength.getAsLong());

    req.headers().contentType().ifPresent(request::requestMediaType); <2>

    objectStorage.putObject(request,
                            req.content())
            .forSingle(response -> res.send(response.requestId())) <3>
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

<1> Create the `Request` using `PutObject.Request.builder()`
<2> Define `MediaType`
<3> Execute the request to OCI in asynchronous way and put the result in `response` object

=== Download file

To download a file from OCI Object Storage using the `GET` method:

[source,java]
----
private void download(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    String objectName = req.path().param("file-name");

    objectStorage.getObject(GetObject.Request.builder()
                                    .bucket(bucketName)
                                    .objectName(objectName)) <1>
            .forSingle(apiResponse -> {
                Optional<GetObjectRx.Response> entity = apiResponse.entity(); <2>
                if (entity.isEmpty()) {
                    res.status(Http.Status.NOT_FOUND_404).send(); <3>
                } else {
                    GetObjectRx.Response response = entity.get();
                    // copy the content length header to response
                    apiResponse.headers()
                            .first(Http.Header.CONTENT_LENGTH)
                            .ifPresent(res.headers()::add);
                    res.send(response.publisher()); <4>
                }
            })
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

<1> Use `getObject` function to make asynchronous request to OCI Object Storage
<2> The result is of type `Optional`
<3> Whenever the result is empty, return status `404`
<4> Get the response, set headers and return the result as a `Publisher`

=== Rename file

To rename an existing file in the OCI bucket, submit a `GET` method with two parameters:

[source,java]
----
private void rename(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    String oldName = req.path().param("old-name");
    String newName = req.path().param("new-name");

    objectStorage.renameObject(RenameObject.Request.builder()
                                       .bucket(bucketName)
                                       .objectName(oldName)
                                       .newObjectName(newName)) <1>
            .forSingle(it -> res.send("Renamed to " + newName)) <2>
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

<1> Use `renameObject` function and configure a `RenameObject.Request.builder()` to submit the rename request
<2> The request is made in asynchronous way; a `Single` is returned


=== Delete file

Finally, to delete a file, `DELETE` request should be used:

[source,java]
----
private void delete(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    String objectName = req.path().param("file-name");

    objectStorage.deleteObject(DeleteObject.Request.builder()
                                       .bucket(bucketName)
                                       .objectName(objectName)) <1>
            .forSingle(response -> res.status(response.status()).send())
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

<1> Use `deleteObject` function and configure a `DeleteObject.Request.builder()` to submit the delete request
<2> The request is made in asynchronous way; a `Single` is returned
