docs/se/oci/03_vault.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.config/io/helidon/oci

= OCI Vault
:h1Prefix: SE
:description: Helidon OCI Vault integration
:keywords: oci, vault
:common-deps-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/dependencies/common_shared.adoc
:feature-name: OCI Vault

The Helidon SE OCI Vault integration provides a reactive API Oracle Cloud Vault features.

include::{common-deps-page-prefix-inc}[tag=maven-dependency]

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.helidon.integrations.oci</groupId>
    <artifactId>helidon-integrations-oci-vault</artifactId>
</dependency>
----


== Setting up the OCI Vault

In order to use the OCI Vault integration, the following setup should be made.

* The configuration required for Vault integration includes:
* Vault OCID - to use the correct Vault, as more than one can be configured
* Compartment OCID - OCI-specific compartment
* Encryption Key OCID - required when doing encryption/decryption
* Signature Key OCID - required when doing signatures/verification
* Cryptographic endpoint - required for all except secrets

First specify OCIDs and URLs of Vault items in `application.yaml`:

[source,yaml]
----
oci:
  vault:
    vault-ocid: "<...>"
    compartment-ocid: "<...>"
    encryption-key-ocid: "<...>"
    signature-key-ocid: "<...>"
    cryptographic-endpoint: "<...>"
----
Current configuration requires `~/.oci/config` to be available in the home folder. This configuration file can be downloaded from OCI.

The OCIDs can be set up and found in OCI under Security tab.

image::oci/ocivault.png[OCI Vault, align="center"]

Next, these values should be read and provided to `VaultService`:

[source,java]
----
Config vaultConfig = config.get("oci.vault");
// the following three parameters are required
String vaultOcid = vaultConfig.get("vault-ocid").asString().get();
String compartmentOcid = vaultConfig.get("compartment-ocid").asString().get();
String encryptionKey = vaultConfig.get("encryption-key-ocid").asString().get();
String signatureKey = vaultConfig.get("signature-key-ocid").asString().get();

// this requires OCI configuration in the usual place
// ~/.oci/config
OciVaultRx ociVault = OciVaultRx.create(config.get("oci"));

WebServer.builder()
        .config(config.get("server"))
        .routing(Routing.builder()
                         .register("/vault", new VaultService(ociVault,
                                                              vaultOcid,
                                                              compartmentOcid,
                                                              encryptionKey,
                                                              signatureKey)))
        .build()
        .start()
        .await();
----

The `VaultService` should define an `update` method to map paths to handler methods:

[source,java]
----
@Override
public void update(Routing.Rules rules) {
    rules.get("/encrypt/{text:.*}", this::encrypt)
            .get("/decrypt/{text:.*}", this::decrypt)
            .get("/sign/{text}", this::sign)
            .get("/verify/{text}/{signature:.*}", this::verify)
            .get("/secret/{id}", this::getSecret)
            .post("/secret/{name}", Handler.create(String.class, this::createSecret))
            .delete("/secret/{id}", this::deleteSecret);
}
----

== OCI Vault usage

=== Encryption

To encrypt a text, submit a `GET` request to the `/encrypt` endpoint:

[source,java]
----
private void encrypt(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    vault.encrypt(Encrypt.Request.builder()
                          .keyId(encryptionKeyOcid)
                          .data(Base64Value.create(req.path().param("text"))))
            .map(Encrypt.Response::cipherText)
            .forSingle(res::send)
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

=== Decryption

To decrypt a text, submit a `GET` request to `/decrypt` endpoint:

[source,java]
----
private void decrypt(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    vault.decrypt(Decrypt.Request.builder()
                          .keyId(encryptionKeyOcid)
                          .cipherText(req.path().param("text")))
            .map(Decrypt.Response::decrypted)
            .map(Base64Value::toDecodedString)
            .forSingle(res::send)
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

=== Signature

To retrieve a signature, submit a `GET` request to `/sign` endpoint:

[source,java]
----
private void sign(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    vault.sign(Sign.Request.builder()
                       .keyId(signatureKeyOcid)
                       .algorithm(Sign.Request.ALGORITHM_SHA_224_RSA_PKCS_PSS)
                       .message(Base64Value.create(req.path().param("text"))))
            .map(Sign.Response::signature)
            .map(Base64Value::toBase64)
            .forSingle(res::send)
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

=== Verification of a signature

To verify the correctness of the signature, submit a `GET` request to `/verify` endpoint:

[source,java]
----
private void verify(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    String text = req.path().param("text");
    String signature = req.path().param("signature");

    vault.verify(Verify.Request.builder()
                         .keyId(signatureKeyOcid)
                         .algorithm(Sign.Request.ALGORITHM_SHA_224_RSA_PKCS_PSS)
                         .message(Base64Value.create(text))
                         .signature(Base64Value.createFromEncoded(signature)))
            .map(Verify.Response::isValid)
            .map(it -> it ? "Signature Valid" : "Signature Invalid")
            .forSingle(res::send)
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

=== Creating a signature

To create a secret with a provided name, submit a `GET` request to `/secret`:

[source,java]
----
private void createSecret(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res, String secretText) {
    vault.createSecret(CreateSecret.Request.builder()
                               .secretContent(CreateSecret.SecretContent.create(secretText))
                               .vaultId(vaultOcid)
                               .compartmentId(compartmentOcid)
                               .encryptionKeyId(encryptionKeyOcid)
                               .secretName(req.path().param("name")))
            .map(CreateSecret.Response::secret)
            .map(Secret::id)
            .forSingle(res::send)
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

=== Getting a signature

To get a secret by its OCID, submit a `GET` request to `/secret`:

[source,java]
----
private void getSecret(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    vault.getSecretBundle(GetSecretBundle.Request.create(req.path().param("id")))
            .forSingle(apiResponse -> {
                Optional<GetSecretBundle.Response> entity = apiResponse.entity();
                if (entity.isEmpty()) {
                    res.status(Http.Status.NOT_FOUND_404).send();
                } else {
                    GetSecretBundle.Response response = entity.get();
                    res.send(response.secretString().orElse(""));
                }
            })
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

=== Deleting a signature

To delete a secret, a `DELETE` request to `/secret` should be used:

[source, java]
----
private void deleteSecret(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    Instant deleteTime = Instant.now().plus(30, ChronoUnit.DAYS);

    vault.deleteSecret(DeleteSecret.Request.builder()
                               .secretId(req.path().param("id"))
                               .timeOfDeletion(deleteTime))
            .forSingle(it -> res.status(it.status()).send())
            .exceptionally(res::send);

}
----

Commit message:

Add experimental warning. Fix copyrights.

docs/se/oci/03_vault.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.config/io/helidon/oci

= OCI Vault
:h1Prefix: SE
:description: Helidon OCI Vault integration
:keywords: oci, vault
:common-deps-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/dependencies/common_shared.adoc
:feature-name: OCI Vault

The Helidon SE OCI Vault integration provides a reactive API Oracle Cloud Vault features.

== Experimental

WARNING: Helidon integration with Oracle Cloud Infrastructure is still experimental and not intended for production use. APIs and features have not yet been fully tested and are subject to change.

include::{common-deps-page-prefix-inc}[tag=maven-dependency]

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.helidon.integrations.oci</groupId>
    <artifactId>helidon-integrations-oci-vault</artifactId>
</dependency>
----


== Setting up the OCI Vault

In order to use the OCI Vault integration, the following setup should be made.

* The configuration required for Vault integration includes:
* Vault OCID - to use the correct Vault, as more than one can be configured
* Compartment OCID - OCI-specific compartment
* Encryption Key OCID - required when doing encryption/decryption
* Signature Key OCID - required when doing signatures/verification
* Cryptographic endpoint - required for all except secrets

First specify OCIDs and URLs of Vault items in `application.yaml`:

[source,yaml]
----
oci:
  vault:
    vault-ocid: "<...>"
    compartment-ocid: "<...>"
    encryption-key-ocid: "<...>"
    signature-key-ocid: "<...>"
    cryptographic-endpoint: "<...>"
----
Current configuration requires `~/.oci/config` to be available in the home folder. This configuration file can be downloaded from OCI.

The OCIDs can be set up and found in OCI under Security tab.

image::oci/ocivault.png[OCI Vault, align="center"]

Next, these values should be read and provided to `VaultService`:

[source,java]
----
Config vaultConfig = config.get("oci.vault");
// the following three parameters are required
String vaultOcid = vaultConfig.get("vault-ocid").asString().get();
String compartmentOcid = vaultConfig.get("compartment-ocid").asString().get();
String encryptionKey = vaultConfig.get("encryption-key-ocid").asString().get();
String signatureKey = vaultConfig.get("signature-key-ocid").asString().get();

// this requires OCI configuration in the usual place
// ~/.oci/config
OciVaultRx ociVault = OciVaultRx.create(config.get("oci"));

WebServer.builder()
        .config(config.get("server"))
        .routing(Routing.builder()
                         .register("/vault", new VaultService(ociVault,
                                                              vaultOcid,
                                                              compartmentOcid,
                                                              encryptionKey,
                                                              signatureKey)))
        .build()
        .start()
        .await();
----

The `VaultService` should define an `update` method to map paths to handler methods:

[source,java]
----
@Override
public void update(Routing.Rules rules) {
    rules.get("/encrypt/{text:.*}", this::encrypt)
            .get("/decrypt/{text:.*}", this::decrypt)
            .get("/sign/{text}", this::sign)
            .get("/verify/{text}/{signature:.*}", this::verify)
            .get("/secret/{id}", this::getSecret)
            .post("/secret/{name}", Handler.create(String.class, this::createSecret))
            .delete("/secret/{id}", this::deleteSecret);
}
----

== OCI Vault usage

=== Encryption

To encrypt a text, submit a `GET` request to the `/encrypt` endpoint:

[source,java]
----
private void encrypt(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    vault.encrypt(Encrypt.Request.builder()
                          .keyId(encryptionKeyOcid)
                          .data(Base64Value.create(req.path().param("text"))))
            .map(Encrypt.Response::cipherText)
            .forSingle(res::send)
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

=== Decryption

To decrypt a text, submit a `GET` request to `/decrypt` endpoint:

[source,java]
----
private void decrypt(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    vault.decrypt(Decrypt.Request.builder()
                          .keyId(encryptionKeyOcid)
                          .cipherText(req.path().param("text")))
            .map(Decrypt.Response::decrypted)
            .map(Base64Value::toDecodedString)
            .forSingle(res::send)
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

=== Signature

To retrieve a signature, submit a `GET` request to `/sign` endpoint:

[source,java]
----
private void sign(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    vault.sign(Sign.Request.builder()
                       .keyId(signatureKeyOcid)
                       .algorithm(Sign.Request.ALGORITHM_SHA_224_RSA_PKCS_PSS)
                       .message(Base64Value.create(req.path().param("text"))))
            .map(Sign.Response::signature)
            .map(Base64Value::toBase64)
            .forSingle(res::send)
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

=== Verification of a signature

To verify the correctness of the signature, submit a `GET` request to `/verify` endpoint:

[source,java]
----
private void verify(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    String text = req.path().param("text");
    String signature = req.path().param("signature");

    vault.verify(Verify.Request.builder()
                         .keyId(signatureKeyOcid)
                         .algorithm(Sign.Request.ALGORITHM_SHA_224_RSA_PKCS_PSS)
                         .message(Base64Value.create(text))
                         .signature(Base64Value.createFromEncoded(signature)))
            .map(Verify.Response::isValid)
            .map(it -> it ? "Signature Valid" : "Signature Invalid")
            .forSingle(res::send)
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

=== Creating a signature

To create a secret with a provided name, submit a `GET` request to `/secret`:

[source,java]
----
private void createSecret(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res, String secretText) {
    vault.createSecret(CreateSecret.Request.builder()
                               .secretContent(CreateSecret.SecretContent.create(secretText))
                               .vaultId(vaultOcid)
                               .compartmentId(compartmentOcid)
                               .encryptionKeyId(encryptionKeyOcid)
                               .secretName(req.path().param("name")))
            .map(CreateSecret.Response::secret)
            .map(Secret::id)
            .forSingle(res::send)
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

=== Getting a signature

To get a secret by its OCID, submit a `GET` request to `/secret`:

[source,java]
----
private void getSecret(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    vault.getSecretBundle(GetSecretBundle.Request.create(req.path().param("id")))
            .forSingle(apiResponse -> {
                Optional<GetSecretBundle.Response> entity = apiResponse.entity();
                if (entity.isEmpty()) {
                    res.status(Http.Status.NOT_FOUND_404).send();
                } else {
                    GetSecretBundle.Response response = entity.get();
                    res.send(response.secretString().orElse(""));
                }
            })
            .exceptionally(res::send);
}
----

=== Deleting a signature

To delete a secret, a `DELETE` request to `/secret` should be used:

[source, java]
----
private void deleteSecret(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
    Instant deleteTime = Instant.now().plus(30, ChronoUnit.DAYS);

    vault.deleteSecret(DeleteSecret.Request.builder()
                               .secretId(req.path().param("id"))
                               .timeOfDeletion(deleteTime))
            .forSingle(it -> res.status(it.status()).send())
            .exceptionally(res::send);

}
----
