# JEP-290

## Overview

[JEP-290](https://openjdk.org/jeps/290) brought support for deserialization
filters to Java programming language. Such filtering allows us to control which
classes may be deserialized using Java serialization.

## Deserialization setup

Helidon default settings forbids any deserialization except for patterns defined
in a `pattern` property of any `META-INF/helidon/serial-config.properties` on
classpath. The patterns are semicolon delimited strings, such as
`io.myapp.**;java.util.HashMap` (any subpackage of `io.myapp` and class
`java.util.HashMap`). Helidon will **always** add a deny-all filter pattern to
the end of the pattern string (to make sure we exclude any unspecified class -
we only operate on whitelists)

These defaults can be modified either through system properties, or
programmatically.

## System property configuration

The following system properties can be used to control deserialization in
Helidon:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>property</th>
<th>default value</th>
<th>description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>helidon.<wbr>serialFilter.<wbr>pattern</code></td>
<td><code>!*</code></td>
<td>Filter pattern to use, deny all is always added</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>helidon.<wbr>serialFilter.<wbr>ignoreFiles</code></td>
<td><code>false</code></td>
<td>Whether to ignore files <code>META-INF/<wbr>helidon/<wbr>serial-config.<wbr>properties</code> in libraries on the classpath</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>helidon.<wbr>serialFilter.<wbr>failure.<wbr>action</code></td>
<td><code>FAIL</code></td>
<td>Action to do when the configuration of global filter exists and is not consistent with our security expectations (e.g. contains a pattern to include all).
Options:
<ul>
<li><code>FAIL</code> - throw an exception to terminate startup</li>
<li><code>WARN</code> - log a warning</li>
<li><code>IGNORE</code> - ignore this and silently continue</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>helidon.<wbr>serialFilter.<wbr>missing.<wbr>action</code></td>
<td><code>CONFIGURE</code></td>
<td>Action to do when there is no global configuration.
Options:
<ul>
<li><code>CONFIGURE</code> - configure Helidon defaults</li>
<li><code>FAIL</code> - throw an exception to terminate startup</li>
<li><code>WARN</code> - log a warning</li>
<li><code>IGNORE</code> - ignore this and silently continue</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>helidon.<wbr>serialFilter.<wbr>trace</code></td>
<td><code>NONE</code></td>
<td>Tracing configuration for deserialization. Controls what information (if any) will be logged to a logger <code>io.<wbr>helidon.<wbr>common.<wbr>SerializationConfig.<wbr>Tracing<wbr>Object<wbr>InputFilter</code> in <code>INFO</code> log level.
Options:
<ul>
<li><code>NONE</code> - do not trace</li>
<li><code>BASIC</code> - trace only classes, and only once per class</li>
<li><code>FULL</code> - trace all deserialization filter requests</li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Programmatic configuration

Custom `SerializationConfig` may be registered, but it **must** be done before
Helidon server is started.

Configure custom Helidon serialization config:

```java
SerializationConfig.builder()
    .traceSerialization(TraceOption.BASIC)
    .filterPattern(MyType.class.getName())
    .ignoreFiles(true)
    .onWrongConfig(Action.IGNORE)
    .build()
    .configure();
```

- Trace first instance of each class that is deserialized
- Configure a single class filter pattern (only allows deserialization of class
  `MyType`
- Ignore files defined in META-INF/helidon/serial-config.properties
- In case there is an existing global serialization configuration on JDK, ignore
  it and continue (global filter cannot be reconfigured)
- Configure this serialization config as the default for this JVM
