docs/mp/tracing/01_tracing.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2018, 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= Tracing
:h1Prefix: MP
:description: Helidon MP Tracing Support
= :keywords: helidon, tracing, microprofile, micro-profile

== Configuring Tracing with Helidon MP
Tracing support is implemented for both for Helidon MP Server and for Jersey client.

Declare the following dependency in your project:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.helidon.microprofile.tracing</groupId>
    <artifactId>helidon-microprofile-tracing</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

In addition you need to add one of the tracer implementations:

- <<tracing/02_zipkin.adoc,Zipkin>>
- <<tracing/03_jaeger.adoc,Jaeger>>

You can configure a custom service name using the `tracing.service` configuration property. If this
property is undefined, name is created from JAX-RS Application name, or `Helidon MP` is used if no application
is defined.

All tracer specific configuration is expected in configuration under key `tracing`.

[source,properties]
.Example `microprofile-config.properties` with customized service name.
----
tracing.service=event-service
----

include::../../shared/tracing/common-config.adoc[]

== Creating custom spans

Helidon MP fully supports MicroProfile OpenTracing.
You can add custom spans using `@Traced` annotation on methods of CDI beans.

*Note for invoking methods on same class:*
_If you invoke a method on the same class, `@Traced` annotation would be ignored, as it is not
invoked through a CDI proxy and as such cannot be intercepted.
To make sure `@Traced` is honored, use it on JAX-RS resource methods and on CDI bean methods used from other beans._

== Trace propagation across services
Automated trace propagation is supported currently only with Jersey client.

Tracing propagation works automatically as long as you run within the scope of
Helidon MP and use Helidon components to invoke external services.

=== Manual handling of traces in Jersey Client

There is an option to provide `SpanContext` programmatically (such as when writing a command line
application that starts the span manually).

You can either configure the span context as the active span, or explicitly define it as client property.

[source,java]
.Tracing propagation with Jersey client
----
import static io.helidon.tracing.jersey.client.ClientTracingFilter.CURRENT_SPAN_CONTEXT_PROPERTY_NAME;
import static io.helidon.tracing.jersey.client.ClientTracingFilter.TRACER_PROPERTY_NAME;

// ...

Response response = client.target(serviceEndpoint)
    .request()
    // tracer should be provided unless available as GlobalTracer
    .property(TRACER_PROPERTY_NAME, tracer)
    .property(CURRENT_SPAN_CONTEXT_PROPERTY_NAME, spanContext)
    .get();
----

Commit message:

Docs: consitently document maven coordinates (#2921)
* Consistently state maven dependencies

docs/mp/tracing/01_tracing.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2018, 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= Tracing
:h1Prefix: MP
:description: Helidon MP Tracing Support
:feature-name: MicroProfile Tracing
:common-deps-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/dependencies/common_shared.adoc
:microprofile-bundle: true
= :keywords: helidon, tracing, microprofile, micro-profile

include::{common-deps-page-prefix-inc}[tag=maven-dependency]

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.helidon.microprofile.tracing</groupId>
    <artifactId>helidon-microprofile-tracing</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== Configuring Tracing with Helidon MP
Tracing support is implemented for both for Helidon MP Server and for Jersey client.
In addition you need to add one of the tracer implementations:

- <<tracing/02_zipkin.adoc,Zipkin>>
- <<tracing/03_jaeger.adoc,Jaeger>>

You can configure a custom service name using the `tracing.service` configuration property. If this
property is undefined, name is created from JAX-RS Application name, or `Helidon MP` is used if no application
is defined.

All tracer specific configuration is expected in configuration under key `tracing`.

[source,properties]
.Example `microprofile-config.properties` with customized service name.
----
tracing.service=event-service
----

include::../../shared/tracing/common-config.adoc[]

== Creating custom spans

Helidon MP fully supports MicroProfile OpenTracing.
You can add custom spans using `@Traced` annotation on methods of CDI beans.

*Note for invoking methods on same class:*
_If you invoke a method on the same class, `@Traced` annotation would be ignored, as it is not
invoked through a CDI proxy and as such cannot be intercepted.
To make sure `@Traced` is honored, use it on JAX-RS resource methods and on CDI bean methods used from other beans._

== Trace propagation across services
Automated trace propagation is supported currently only with Jersey client.

Tracing propagation works automatically as long as you run within the scope of
Helidon MP and use Helidon components to invoke external services.

=== Manual handling of traces in Jersey Client

There is an option to provide `SpanContext` programmatically (such as when writing a command line
application that starts the span manually).

You can either configure the span context as the active span, or explicitly define it as client property.

[source,java]
.Tracing propagation with Jersey client
----
import static io.helidon.tracing.jersey.client.ClientTracingFilter.CURRENT_SPAN_CONTEXT_PROPERTY_NAME;
import static io.helidon.tracing.jersey.client.ClientTracingFilter.TRACER_PROPERTY_NAME;

// ...

Response response = client.target(serviceEndpoint)
    .request()
    // tracer should be provided unless available as GlobalTracer
    .property(TRACER_PROPERTY_NAME, tracer)
    .property(CURRENT_SPAN_CONTEXT_PROPERTY_NAME, spanContext)
    .get();
----
