docs/mp/oci/02_object-storage.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.config/io/helidon/oci

= OCI Object Storage
:h1Prefix: MP
:description: Helidon OCI Object Storage integration
:keywords: oci, objectstorage
:common-deps-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/dependencies/common_shared.adoc
:feature-name: OCI Object Storage

The Helidon MP OCI Object Storage integration provides easy access files stored in Oracle cloud.

include::{common-deps-page-prefix-inc}[tag=maven-dependency]

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.helidon.integrations.oci</groupId>
    <artifactId>helidon-integrations-oci-objectstorage</artifactId>
</dependency>
----


== Setting up the Object Storage

In order to use the OCI Object Storage integration, the following setup should be made:

Current configuration requires `~/.oci/config` to be available in the home folder. This configuration file can be downloaded from OCI.

REST endpoint to work with OCI Object Storage:

[source,java]
----
@Path("/files")
public class ObjectStorageResource {
    private final OciObjectStorage objectStorage;
    private final String bucketName;

    @Inject
    ObjectStorageResource(OciObjectStorage objectStorage, <1>
                          @ConfigProperty(name = "oci.objectstorage.bucket")
                                  String bucketName) { <2>
        this.objectStorage = objectStorage;
        this.bucketName = bucketName;
    }
}
----
<1> `OciObjectStorage` is configured and injected automatically
<2> Bucket name is read from the properties

Additionally, in `microprofile-config.properties` OCI properties should be specified:

[source,properties]
----
oci.properties.compartment-ocid: "ocid1.tenancy.oc1..<..>"
oci.properties.objectstorage-namespace: "<..>"
oci.properties.objectstorage-bucket: "demobucket"
----

The exact values are available in OCI object storage and bucket properties.

image::oci/ocibucket.png[OCI Bucket, align="center"]

== Using Object Storage

=== Upload file

To upload a file to OCI Object Storage using the `PUT` method:

[source,java]
----
@POST
@Path("/file/{fileName}")
public Response upload(@PathParam("fileName") String fileName,
                     @HeaderParam("Content-Length") long contentLength,
                     @HeaderParam("Content-Type") @DefaultValue("application/octet-stream") String type,
                     InputStream entity) {
    PutObject.Response response = objectStorage.putObject(PutObject.Request.builder() <1>
                                                                  .contentLength(contentLength)
                                                                  .bucket(bucketName)
                                                                  .requestMediaType(io.helidon.common.http.MediaType
                                                                                            .parse(type))
                                                                  .objectName(fileName),
                                                          Channels.newChannel(entity));

    return Response.status(response.status().code()) <2>
            .header("opc-request-id", response.headers().first("opc-request-id").orElse(""))
            .header("request-id", response.requestId())
            .build();
}
----

<1> Use `objectStorage.putObject` method with`PutObject.Request.builder()` to submit data
<2> Put the result in the `Response`


=== Download file

To download a file from OCI Object Storage using the `GET` method:

[source,java]
----
@GET
@Path("/file/{file-name}")
public Response download(@PathParam("file-name") String fileName) {
    ApiOptionalResponse<GetObject.Response> ociResponse = objectStorage.getObject(GetObject.Request.builder() <1>
                                                                                                  .bucket(bucketName)
                                                                                                  .objectName(fileName));
    Optional<GetObject.Response> entity = ociResponse.entity(); <2>

    if (entity.isEmpty()) {
        return Response.status(Response.Status.NOT_FOUND).build(); <3>
    }

    GetObject.Response response = entity.get();

    StreamingOutput stream = output -> response.writeTo(Channels.newChannel(output));

    Response.ResponseBuilder ok = Response.ok(stream, MediaType.APPLICATION_OCTET_STREAM_TYPE) <4>
            .header(Http.Header.CONTENT_DISPOSITION, "attachment; filename=\"" + fileName + "\"")
            .header("opc-request-id", ociResponse.headers().first("opc-request-id").orElse(""))
            .header("request-id", ociResponse.requestId());

    ociResponse.headers()
            .first(Http.Header.CONTENT_TYPE)
            .ifPresent(ok::type);

    ociResponse.headers()
            .first(Http.Header.CONTENT_LENGTH)
            .ifPresent(it -> ok.header(Http.Header.CONTENT_LENGTH, it));

    return ok.build();
}
----

<1> Use `getObject` function to make asynchronous request to OCI Object Storage
<2> The result is of type `Optional`
<3> Whenever the result is empty, return status `404`
<4> Get the response, set headers and return the result


=== Delete file

Finally, to delete a file, `DELETE` request should be used:

[source,java]
----
@DELETE
@Path("/file/{file-name}")
public Response delete(@PathParam("file-name") String fileName) {
    DeleteObject.Response response = objectStorage.deleteObject(DeleteObject.Request.builder() <1>
                                                                        .bucket(bucketName)
                                                                        .objectName(fileName));

    return Response.status(response.status().code()) <2>
            .header("opc-request-id", response.headers().first("opc-request-id").orElse(""))
            .header("request-id", response.requestId())
            .build();
}
----

<1> Use `deleteObject` function and configure a `DeleteObject.Request.builder()` to submit the delete request
<2> Return the result

Commit message:

Add experimental warning. Fix copyrights.

docs/mp/oci/02_object-storage.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.config/io/helidon/oci

= OCI Object Storage
:h1Prefix: MP
:description: Helidon OCI Object Storage integration
:keywords: oci, objectstorage
:common-deps-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/dependencies/common_shared.adoc
:feature-name: OCI Object Storage

The Helidon MP OCI Object Storage integration provides easy access files stored in Oracle cloud.

== Experimental

WARNING: Helidon integration with Oracle Cloud Infrastructure is still experimental and not intended for production use. APIs and features have not yet been fully tested and are subject to change.

include::{common-deps-page-prefix-inc}[tag=maven-dependency]

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.helidon.integrations.oci</groupId>
    <artifactId>helidon-integrations-oci-objectstorage</artifactId>
</dependency>
----


== Setting up the Object Storage

In order to use the OCI Object Storage integration, the following setup should be made:

Current configuration requires `~/.oci/config` to be available in the home folder. This configuration file can be downloaded from OCI.

REST endpoint to work with OCI Object Storage:

[source,java]
----
@Path("/files")
public class ObjectStorageResource {
    private final OciObjectStorage objectStorage;
    private final String bucketName;

    @Inject
    ObjectStorageResource(OciObjectStorage objectStorage, <1>
                          @ConfigProperty(name = "oci.objectstorage.bucket")
                                  String bucketName) { <2>
        this.objectStorage = objectStorage;
        this.bucketName = bucketName;
    }
}
----
<1> `OciObjectStorage` is configured and injected automatically
<2> Bucket name is read from the properties

Additionally, in `microprofile-config.properties` OCI properties should be specified:

[source,properties]
----
oci.properties.compartment-ocid: "ocid1.tenancy.oc1..<..>"
oci.properties.objectstorage-namespace: "<..>"
oci.properties.objectstorage-bucket: "demobucket"
----

The exact values are available in OCI object storage and bucket properties.

image::oci/ocibucket.png[OCI Bucket, align="center"]

== Using Object Storage

=== Upload file

To upload a file to OCI Object Storage using the `PUT` method:

[source,java]
----
@POST
@Path("/file/{fileName}")
public Response upload(@PathParam("fileName") String fileName,
                     @HeaderParam("Content-Length") long contentLength,
                     @HeaderParam("Content-Type") @DefaultValue("application/octet-stream") String type,
                     InputStream entity) {
    PutObject.Response response = objectStorage.putObject(PutObject.Request.builder() <1>
                                                                  .contentLength(contentLength)
                                                                  .bucket(bucketName)
                                                                  .requestMediaType(io.helidon.common.http.MediaType
                                                                                            .parse(type))
                                                                  .objectName(fileName),
                                                          Channels.newChannel(entity));

    return Response.status(response.status().code()) <2>
            .header("opc-request-id", response.headers().first("opc-request-id").orElse(""))
            .header("request-id", response.requestId())
            .build();
}
----

<1> Use `objectStorage.putObject` method with`PutObject.Request.builder()` to submit data
<2> Put the result in the `Response`


=== Download file

To download a file from OCI Object Storage using the `GET` method:

[source,java]
----
@GET
@Path("/file/{file-name}")
public Response download(@PathParam("file-name") String fileName) {
    ApiOptionalResponse<GetObject.Response> ociResponse = objectStorage.getObject(GetObject.Request.builder() <1>
                                                                                                  .bucket(bucketName)
                                                                                                  .objectName(fileName));
    Optional<GetObject.Response> entity = ociResponse.entity(); <2>

    if (entity.isEmpty()) {
        return Response.status(Response.Status.NOT_FOUND).build(); <3>
    }

    GetObject.Response response = entity.get();

    StreamingOutput stream = output -> response.writeTo(Channels.newChannel(output));

    Response.ResponseBuilder ok = Response.ok(stream, MediaType.APPLICATION_OCTET_STREAM_TYPE) <4>
            .header(Http.Header.CONTENT_DISPOSITION, "attachment; filename=\"" + fileName + "\"")
            .header("opc-request-id", ociResponse.headers().first("opc-request-id").orElse(""))
            .header("request-id", ociResponse.requestId());

    ociResponse.headers()
            .first(Http.Header.CONTENT_TYPE)
            .ifPresent(ok::type);

    ociResponse.headers()
            .first(Http.Header.CONTENT_LENGTH)
            .ifPresent(it -> ok.header(Http.Header.CONTENT_LENGTH, it));

    return ok.build();
}
----

<1> Use `getObject` function to make asynchronous request to OCI Object Storage
<2> The result is of type `Optional`
<3> Whenever the result is empty, return status `404`
<4> Get the response, set headers and return the result


=== Delete file

Finally, to delete a file, `DELETE` request should be used:

[source,java]
----
@DELETE
@Path("/file/{file-name}")
public Response delete(@PathParam("file-name") String fileName) {
    DeleteObject.Response response = objectStorage.deleteObject(DeleteObject.Request.builder() <1>
                                                                        .bucket(bucketName)
                                                                        .objectName(fileName));

    return Response.status(response.status().code()) <2>
            .header("opc-request-id", response.headers().first("opc-request-id").orElse(""))
            .header("request-id", response.requestId())
            .build();
}
----

<1> Use `deleteObject` function and configure a `DeleteObject.Request.builder()` to submit the delete request
<2> Return the result
