docs/mp/oci/03_vault.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version <2>0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-<2>0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.config/io/helidon/oci

= OCI Vault
:h1Prefix: MP
:description: Helidon OCI Vault integration
:keywords: oci, vault
:common-deps-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/dependencies/common_shared.adoc
:feature-name: OCI Vault

The Helidon MP OCI Vault integration provides easy access to Oracle Cloud Vault features.

include::{common-deps-page-prefix-inc}[tag=maven-dependency]

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.helidon.integrations.oci</groupId>
    <artifactId>helidon-integrations-oci-cdi</artifactId>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.helidon.integrations.oci</groupId>
    <artifactId>helidon-integrations-oci-vault</artifactId>
</dependency>
----


== Setting up the OCI Vault

In order to use the OCI Vault integration, the following setup should be made.

* The configuration required for Vault integration includes:
* Vault OCID - to use the correct Vault, as more than one can be configured
* Compartment OCID - OCI-specific compartment
* Encryption Key OCID - required when doing encryption/decryption
* Signature Key OCID - required when doing signatures/verification
* Cryptographic endpoint - required for all except secrets

First specify OCIDs and URLs of Vault items in `microprofile-config.properties`:

[source,properties]
----
oci.vault.vault-ocid: "<...>"
oci.vault.compartment-ocid: "<...>"
oci.vault.encryption-key-ocid: "<...>"
oci.vault.signature-key-ocid: "<...>"
oci.vault.cryptographic-endpoint: "<...>"
----

The OCIDs can be set up and found in OCI under Security tab.

image::oci/ocivault.png[OCI Vault, align="center"]

REST endpoint should be setup as follows:

[source,java]
----
@Path("/vault")
public class VaultResource {
    private final OciVault vault;
    private final String vaultOcid;
    private final String compartmentOcid;
    private final String encryptionKeyOcid;
    private final String signatureKeyOcid;

    @Inject
    VaultResource(@Named("custom") OciVault vault, <1>
                  @ConfigProperty(name = "app.vault.vault-ocid") <2>
                          String vaultOcid,
                  @ConfigProperty(name = "app.vault.compartment-ocid") <3>
                          String compartmentOcid,
                  @ConfigProperty(name = "app.vault.encryption-key-ocid") <4>
                          String encryptionKeyOcid,
                  @ConfigProperty(name = "app.vault.signature-key-ocid") <5>
                          String signatureKeyOcid) {
        this.vault = vault;
        this.vaultOcid = vaultOcid;
        this.compartmentOcid = compartmentOcid;
        this.encryptionKeyOcid = encryptionKeyOcid;
        this.signatureKeyOcid = signatureKeyOcid;
    }
}
----

<1> `OciVault` support class is configured and injected automatically
<2> <3> <4> <5> Properties a read from the configuration

== OCI Vault usage

=== Encryption

To encrypt a text, submit a `GET` request to the `/encrypt` endpoint:

[source,java]
----
@GET
@Path("/encrypt/{text}")
public String encrypt(@PathParam("text") String secret) {
    return vault.encrypt(Encrypt.Request.builder()
                                 .keyId(encryptionKeyOcid)
                                 .data(Base64Value.create(secret)))
            .cipherText();
}
----

=== Decryption

To decrypt a text, submit a `GET` request to `/decrypt` endpoint:

[source,java]
----
@GET
@Path("/decrypt/{text: .*}")
public String decrypt(@PathParam("text") String cipherText) {
    return vault.decrypt(Decrypt.Request.builder()
                                 .keyId(encryptionKeyOcid)
                                 .cipherText(cipherText))
            .decrypted()
            .toDecodedString();
}
----

=== Signature

To retrieve a signature, submit a `GET` request to `/sign` endpoint:

[source,java]
----
@GET
@Path("/sign/{text}")
public String sign(@PathParam("text") String dataToSign) {
    return vault.sign(Sign.Request.builder()
                              .keyId(signatureKeyOcid)
                              .algorithm(Sign.Request.ALGORITHM_SHA_224_RSA_PKCS_PSS)
                              .message(Base64Value.create(dataToSign)))
            .signature()
            .toBase64();
}
----

=== Verification of a signature

To verify the correctness of the signature, submit a `GET` request to `/verify` endpoint:

[source,java]
----
    @GET
    @Path("/sign/{text}/{signature: .*}")
    public String verify(@PathParam("text") String dataToVerify,
                         @PathParam("signature") String signature) {
        boolean valid = vault.verify(Verify.Request.builder()
                                             .keyId(signatureKeyOcid)
                                             .message(Base64Value.create(dataToVerify))
                                             .algorithm(Sign.Request.ALGORITHM_SHA_224_RSA_PKCS_PSS)
                                             .signature(Base64Value.createFromEncoded(signature)))
                .isValid();

        return valid ? "Signature valid" : "Signature not valid";
    }
----

=== Creating a signature

To create a secret with a provided name, submit a `GET` request to `/secret`:

[source,java]
----
@POST
@Path("/secret/{name}")
public String createSecret(@PathParam("name") String name,
                           String secretText) {
    return vault.createSecret(CreateSecret.Request.builder()
                                      .secretName(name)
                                      .secretContent(CreateSecret.SecretContent.create(secretText))
                                      .vaultId(vaultOcid)
                                      .compartmentId(compartmentOcid)
                                      .encryptionKeyId(encryptionKeyOcid))
            .secret()
            .id();

}
----

=== Getting a signature

To get a secret by its OCID, use `GET` Request to `/secret`:

[source,java]
----
@GET
@Path("/secret/{id}")
public String getSecret(@PathParam("id") String secretOcid) {
    Optional<GetSecretBundle.Response> response =
             vault.getSecretBundle(GetSecretBundle.Request.builder()
            .secretId(secretOcid))
            .entity();

    if (response.isEmpty()) {
        throw new NotFoundException("Secret with id " + secretOcid +
                                                       " does not exist");
    }

    return response.get().secretString().orElse("");
}
----

=== Deleting a signature

To delete a secret, a `DELETE` request to `/secret` should be used:

[source, java]
----
@DELETE
@Path("/secret/{id}")
public String deleteSecret(@PathParam("id") String secretOcid) {
    Instant deleteTime = Instant.now().plus(30, ChronoUnit.DAYS);

    vault.deleteSecret(DeleteSecret.Request.builder()
                               .secretId(secretOcid)
                               .timeOfDeletion(deleteTime));

    return "Secret " + secretOcid + " was deleted";
}
----

Commit message:

Add experimental warning. Fix copyrights.

docs/mp/oci/03_vault.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.config/io/helidon/oci

= OCI Vault
:h1Prefix: MP
:description: Helidon OCI Vault integration
:keywords: oci, vault
:common-deps-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/dependencies/common_shared.adoc
:feature-name: OCI Vault

The Helidon MP OCI Vault integration provides easy access to Oracle Cloud Vault features.

== Experimental

WARNING: Helidon integration with Oracle Cloud Infrastructure is still experimental and not intended for production use. APIs and features have not yet been fully tested and are subject to change.

include::{common-deps-page-prefix-inc}[tag=maven-dependency]

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.helidon.integrations.oci</groupId>
    <artifactId>helidon-integrations-oci-cdi</artifactId>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.helidon.integrations.oci</groupId>
    <artifactId>helidon-integrations-oci-vault</artifactId>
</dependency>
----


== Setting up the OCI Vault

In order to use the OCI Vault integration, the following setup should be made.

* The configuration required for Vault integration includes:
* Vault OCID - to use the correct Vault, as more than one can be configured
* Compartment OCID - OCI-specific compartment
* Encryption Key OCID - required when doing encryption/decryption
* Signature Key OCID - required when doing signatures/verification
* Cryptographic endpoint - required for all except secrets

First specify OCIDs and URLs of Vault items in `microprofile-config.properties`:

[source,properties]
----
oci.vault.vault-ocid: "<...>"
oci.vault.compartment-ocid: "<...>"
oci.vault.encryption-key-ocid: "<...>"
oci.vault.signature-key-ocid: "<...>"
oci.vault.cryptographic-endpoint: "<...>"
----

The OCIDs can be set up and found in OCI under Security tab.

image::oci/ocivault.png[OCI Vault, align="center"]

REST endpoint should be setup as follows:

[source,java]
----
@Path("/vault")
public class VaultResource {
    private final OciVault vault;
    private final String vaultOcid;
    private final String compartmentOcid;
    private final String encryptionKeyOcid;
    private final String signatureKeyOcid;

    @Inject
    VaultResource(@Named("custom") OciVault vault, <1>
                  @ConfigProperty(name = "app.vault.vault-ocid") <2>
                          String vaultOcid,
                  @ConfigProperty(name = "app.vault.compartment-ocid") <3>
                          String compartmentOcid,
                  @ConfigProperty(name = "app.vault.encryption-key-ocid") <4>
                          String encryptionKeyOcid,
                  @ConfigProperty(name = "app.vault.signature-key-ocid") <5>
                          String signatureKeyOcid) {
        this.vault = vault;
        this.vaultOcid = vaultOcid;
        this.compartmentOcid = compartmentOcid;
        this.encryptionKeyOcid = encryptionKeyOcid;
        this.signatureKeyOcid = signatureKeyOcid;
    }
}
----

<1> `OciVault` support class is configured and injected automatically
<2> <3> <4> <5> Properties a read from the configuration

== OCI Vault usage

=== Encryption

To encrypt a text, submit a `GET` request to the `/encrypt` endpoint:

[source,java]
----
@GET
@Path("/encrypt/{text}")
public String encrypt(@PathParam("text") String secret) {
    return vault.encrypt(Encrypt.Request.builder()
                                 .keyId(encryptionKeyOcid)
                                 .data(Base64Value.create(secret)))
            .cipherText();
}
----

=== Decryption

To decrypt a text, submit a `GET` request to `/decrypt` endpoint:

[source,java]
----
@GET
@Path("/decrypt/{text: .*}")
public String decrypt(@PathParam("text") String cipherText) {
    return vault.decrypt(Decrypt.Request.builder()
                                 .keyId(encryptionKeyOcid)
                                 .cipherText(cipherText))
            .decrypted()
            .toDecodedString();
}
----

=== Signature

To retrieve a signature, submit a `GET` request to `/sign` endpoint:

[source,java]
----
@GET
@Path("/sign/{text}")
public String sign(@PathParam("text") String dataToSign) {
    return vault.sign(Sign.Request.builder()
                              .keyId(signatureKeyOcid)
                              .algorithm(Sign.Request.ALGORITHM_SHA_224_RSA_PKCS_PSS)
                              .message(Base64Value.create(dataToSign)))
            .signature()
            .toBase64();
}
----

=== Verification of a signature

To verify the correctness of the signature, submit a `GET` request to `/verify` endpoint:

[source,java]
----
    @GET
    @Path("/sign/{text}/{signature: .*}")
    public String verify(@PathParam("text") String dataToVerify,
                         @PathParam("signature") String signature) {
        boolean valid = vault.verify(Verify.Request.builder()
                                             .keyId(signatureKeyOcid)
                                             .message(Base64Value.create(dataToVerify))
                                             .algorithm(Sign.Request.ALGORITHM_SHA_224_RSA_PKCS_PSS)
                                             .signature(Base64Value.createFromEncoded(signature)))
                .isValid();

        return valid ? "Signature valid" : "Signature not valid";
    }
----

=== Creating a signature

To create a secret with a provided name, submit a `GET` request to `/secret`:

[source,java]
----
@POST
@Path("/secret/{name}")
public String createSecret(@PathParam("name") String name,
                           String secretText) {
    return vault.createSecret(CreateSecret.Request.builder()
                                      .secretName(name)
                                      .secretContent(CreateSecret.SecretContent.create(secretText))
                                      .vaultId(vaultOcid)
                                      .compartmentId(compartmentOcid)
                                      .encryptionKeyId(encryptionKeyOcid))
            .secret()
            .id();

}
----

=== Getting a signature

To get a secret by its OCID, use `GET` Request to `/secret`:

[source,java]
----
@GET
@Path("/secret/{id}")
public String getSecret(@PathParam("id") String secretOcid) {
    Optional<GetSecretBundle.Response> response =
             vault.getSecretBundle(GetSecretBundle.Request.builder()
            .secretId(secretOcid))
            .entity();

    if (response.isEmpty()) {
        throw new NotFoundException("Secret with id " + secretOcid +
                                                       " does not exist");
    }

    return response.get().secretString().orElse("");
}
----

=== Deleting a signature

To delete a secret, a `DELETE` request to `/secret` should be used:

[source, java]
----
@DELETE
@Path("/secret/{id}")
public String deleteSecret(@PathParam("id") String secretOcid) {
    Instant deleteTime = Instant.now().plus(30, ChronoUnit.DAYS);

    vault.deleteSecret(DeleteSecret.Request.builder()
                               .secretId(secretOcid)
                               .timeOfDeletion(deleteTime));

    return "Secret " + secretOcid + " was deleted";
}
----
