docs/mp/health/01_introduction.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= MicroProfile Health
:toc:
:toc-placement: preamble
:spec-name: MicroProfile Health
:description: {spec-name} support in Helidon MP
:keywords: helidon, mp, microprofile, health

== This page is Under Construction and will be available soon

Commit message:

updated MP health intro with link to Guide

docs/mp/health/01_introduction.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= MicroProfile Health
:spec-name: MicroProfile Health
:description: {spec-name} support in Helidon MP
:keywords: helidon, mp, microprofile, health
:h1Prefix: MP 

== Overview
Applications implement health checks to expose health status that is collected
 at regular intervals by external tooling, such as orchestrators like
 Kubernetes. The orchestrator may then take action, such as restarting your
 application if the health check fails.

A typical health check combines the statuses of all the dependencies that
 affect availability and the ability to perform correctly:

* network latency
* storage
* database
* other services used by your application

== Next Steps

Create a sample MicroProfile (MP) project
that can be used to run some basic examples using both built-in and custom health-checks with Helidon MP.  <<mp/guides/04_health.adoc, Helidon MP Health Check Guide>>.
