# io.<wbr>helidon.<wbr>messaging.<wbr>connectors.<wbr>kafka.<wbr>Kafka<wbr>Config<wbr>Builder

## Description

Build Kafka specific config

## Configuration options


<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Key</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>
<code>value-<wbr>deserializer</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>Class</code>
</td>
<td>Deserializer class for value that implements the <code>org.<wbr>apache.<wbr>kafka.<wbr>common.<wbr>serialization.<wbr>Deserializer</code> interface</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<code>group-<wbr>id</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>String</code>
</td>
<td>A unique string that identifies the consumer group this consumer belongs to</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<a id="auto-offset-reset"></a>
<a href="io.helidon.messaging.connectors.kafka.KafkaConfigBuilder.AutoOffsetReset.md">
<code>auto-<wbr>offset-<wbr>reset</code>
</a>
</td>
<td>
<code>Auto<wbr>Offset<wbr>Reset</code>
</td>
<td>What to do when there is no initial offset in Kafka or if the current offset does not exist any more on the server (e.g</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<code>topic-<wbr>pattern</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>Pattern</code>
</td>
<td>Pattern for topic names to consume from</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<code>acks</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>String</code>
</td>
<td>The number of acknowledgments the producer requires the leader to have received before considering a request complete</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<code>bootstrap-<wbr>servers</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>String</code>
</td>
<td>A list of host/port pairs to use for establishing the initial connection to the Kafka cluster</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<code>key-<wbr>serializer</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>Class</code>
</td>
<td>Serializer class for key that implements the <code>org.<wbr>apache.<wbr>kafka.<wbr>common.<wbr>serialization.<wbr>Serializer</code> interface</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<code>enable-<wbr>auto-<wbr>commit</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>Boolean</code>
</td>
<td>If true the consumer's offset will be periodically committed in the background</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<code>batch-<wbr>size</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>Integer</code>
</td>
<td>The producer will attempt to batch records together into fewer requests whenever multiple records are being sent to the same partition</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<code>dlq-<wbr>topic</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>List&lt;<wbr>String&gt;</code>
</td>
<td>Names of the "dead letter queue" topics to be used in case message is nacked</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<code>retries</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>Integer</code>
</td>
<td>Setting a value greater than zero will cause the client to resend any record whose send fails with a potentially transient error</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<code>buffer-<wbr>memory</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>Long</code>
</td>
<td>The total bytes of memory the producer can use to buffer records waiting to be sent to the server</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<code>poll-<wbr>timeout</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>Long</code>
</td>
<td>The maximum time to block polling loop in milliseconds</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<code>compression-<wbr>type</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>String</code>
</td>
<td>The compression type for all data generated by the producer</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<code>topic</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>List&lt;<wbr>String&gt;</code>
</td>
<td>Names of the topics to consume from</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<code>value-<wbr>serializer</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>Class</code>
</td>
<td>Serializer class for value that implements the <code>org.<wbr>apache.<wbr>kafka.<wbr>common.<wbr>serialization.<wbr>Serializer</code> interface</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<code>period-<wbr>executions</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>Long</code>
</td>
<td>Period between successive executions of polling loop</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<code>key-<wbr>deserializer</code>
</td>
<td>
<code>Class</code>
</td>
<td>Deserializer class for key that implements the <code>org.<wbr>apache.<wbr>kafka.<wbr>common.<wbr>serialization.<wbr>Deserializer</code> interface</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>



---

See the [manifest](manifest.md) for all available types.
