docs/se/cors/04_support-in-builtin-services.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= CORS in Built-in Services
:toc:
:toc-placement: preamble
:pagename: cors-built-in-service-support
:description: Helidon SE CORS Support in Built-in Services
:keywords: helidon, java, cors, se, services
:helidon-tag: https://github.com/oracle/helidon/tree/{helidon-version}
:quickstart-example: {helidon-tag}/examples/quickstarts/helidon-quickstart-se
:cors-spec: https://www.w3.org/TR/cors/
:helidon-se-cors-example: {helidon-tag}/examples/cors
:helidon-tag: https://github.com/oracle/helidon/tree/{helidon-version}
:quickstart-example: {helidon-tag}/examples/quickstarts/helidon-quickstart-se
:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.webserver.cors/io/helidon/webserver/cors
:javadoc-base-url-webserver: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.webserver/io/helidon/webserver
:cors-se-intro: 01_introduction.adoc
:cors-se-api-doc: 02_using-the-api.adoc
:cors-config-table-src: {cors-se-api-doc}
:cors-dependency-src: {cors-se-api-doc}
:health-page: se/health/01_health.adoc
:metrics-page: se/metrics/01_metrics.adoc
:openapi-page: se/openapi/01_openapi.adoc
:cors-services-is-se:
:helidon-variant: SE

Several built-in Helidon services -- health, metrics, and OpenAPI -- automatically support cross-origin resource
sharing and you can control how they do so.

// tag::understanding-cors-support-in-services[]
== Understanding CORS Support in Helidon Services
Helidon lets you easily include <<{health-page},health>>, <<{metrics-page},metrics>>, and
<<{openapi-page},OpenAPI>> services in your Helidon application.
These services add endpoints to your application so that clients can retrieve information about it.
As with the application endpoints you write, these endpoints represent resources that can be shared across origins.

For example, several websites related to OpenAPI run a web application in your browser.
You provide the URL for your application to the browser application.
The browser app uses the URL to retrieve, directly from your application, the OpenAPI document
which describes the application's endpoints.
The browser app then displays a user interface you use to "drive" your application:
you provide input, have the web application
send requests to your application endpoints, and view the responses.
This scenario is exactly the situation CORS addresses: an application in the browser from one origin -- the user interface downloaded from the
website -- requests a resource from another origin -- the `/openapi` endpoint which Helidon's OpenAPI built-in
service automatically adds to your application.

Integrating CORS support into these built-in services allows such third-party web sites and their browser apps -- or
more generally, apps from any other origin -- to work with your Helidon application.

Because all three of these built-in Helidon services serve only `GET` endpoints, by default the
integrated CORS support in all three services permits
any origin to share their resources using `GET`, `HEAD`, and `OPTIONS` HTTP requests. You can customize the CORS set-up
for these built-in services independently from each other using
ifdef::cors-services-is-se[ either the Helidon API, configuration, or both.]
ifndef::cors-services-is-se[ configuration.]

// end::understanding-cors-support-in-services[]

// tag::getting-started[]
== Getting Started
To use built-in services with CORS support and customize the
CORS behavior:

. Add the built-in service or services to your application. The health, metrics, and OpenAPI services automatically
include default CORS support.
. {blank}
+
--
Add a dependency on the Helidon {helidon-variant} CORS artifact to your `pom.xml`.

Even if your own endpoints do not use CORS with your own endpoints, you need to add the CORS dependency
if you want the built-in services to support CORS.

include::{cors-dependency-src}[tag=add-cors-dependency]
--
. Use
ifdef::cors-services-is-se[the Helidon API or]
configuration to customize the CORS behavior as needed.

The documentation for the individual built-in services describes how to add each
service to your application, including
adding a Maven
ifdef::cors-services-is-se[dependency and including the service in your application's routing rules.]
ifndef::cors-services-is-se[dependency.]
In your
application's configuration file, the configuration for each service appears under its own key.
|====
| Helidon Service Documentation | Configuration Key

| <<{health-page}, health>> | `health`
| <<{metrics-page}, metrics>> | `metrics`
| <<{openapi-page}, OpenAPI>> | `openapi`
|====

The link:{quickstart-example}[Helidon {helidon-variant} QuickStart example]
uses these services, so you can use that as a template for your
own application, or use the example project itself to experiment with customizing the CORS
behavior in the built-in services.
// end::getting-started[]

== Controlling CORS for Built-in Services using the API
Although services such as health, metrics, and OpenAPI are built-in to Helidon, to use them your application must create
instances of the services and uses those instances in building your application's routing rules.

Recall that each
service type has a `Builder` class. To control the CORS behavior of a built-in service, follow these steps:

. Create a `Builder` for the type of service of interest.
. Build an instance of `CrossOriginConfig` with the settings you want.
. Invoke the `builder.crossOriginConfig` method, passing that `CrossOriginConfig` instance.
. Invoke the builder's `build` method to initialize the service instance.
. Use the service instance in preparing the routing rules.

The following excerpt shows changes to the link:{quickstart-example}[Helidon SE QuickStart example] which limit
sharing of the `/metrics` endpoint to `http://foo.com`.
[source,java]
----
private static Routing createRouting(Config config) {

        CrossOriginConfig metricsCrossOriginConfig = CrossOriginConfig.builder() // <1>
                .allowOrigins("http://foo.com")
                .build();
        MetricsSupport metrics = MetricsSupport.builder()
                .crossOriginConfig(metricsCrossOriginConfig) // <2>
                .build();
        GreetService greetService = new GreetService(config);
        HealthSupport health = HealthSupport.builder()
                .addLiveness(HealthChecks.healthChecks())   // Adds a convenient set of checks
                .build();

        return Routing.builder()
                .register(health)                   // Health at "/health"
                .register(metrics)                  // Metrics at "/metrics" // <3>
                .register("/greet", greetService)
                .build();
    }
----
<1> Create the `CrossOriginConfig` for metrics, limiting sharing to `http://foo.com`.
<2> Use the `CrossOriginConfig` instance in constructing the `MetricsSupport` service.
<3> Use the `MetricsSupport` object in creating the routing rules.

// tag::configuring-cors-for-builtin-services[]
== Configuring CORS for Built-in Services
You can
ifdef::cors-services-is-se[also ]
use configuration to control whether and how each of the built-in services works with CORS.

ifdef::cors-services-is-se[]
Your application can pass configuration to the builder for each built-in service.
endif::[]
For the health, metrics, and OpenAPI services, your configuration can include a section for CORS.

// Tag the following example so we can exclude it from MP which supplies its own complete example.
// tag::se-config-example[]
The following example restricts sharing of the
`/health` resource, provided by the health built-in service, to only the origin `http://there.com`.
[source,hocon]
----
...
health:
  cors:
    allow-origins: [http://there.com]
...
----
// end::se-config-example[]

// tag::se-code-changes-for-builtin-services-config[]
Modify your application to load the `health` config node and use it to construct the `HealthSupport` service.
The following code shows this change in the the QuickStart SE example.
[source,java]
----
HealthSupport health = HealthSupport.builder()
        .config(config.get("health")) // <1>
        .addLiveness(HealthChecks.healthChecks())   // Adds a convenient set of checks
        .build();
----
<1> Use the `health` config section (if present) to configure the health service.
// end::se-code-changes-for-builtin-services-config[]

You have full control over the CORS configuration for a built-in Helidon service. Use a basic CORS config section
as described in the <<se/cors/03_using-configuration.adoc,CORS configuration>> documentation.

Remember that if you set configuration in a file that you include as part of your application JAR file, you need to
rebuild and restart your application for any changes to take effect.
// end::configuring-cors-for-builtin-services[]

// tag::accessing-shared-resources-intro[]
== Accessing the Shared Resources
=== Build and Run the Application
Build and run the QuickStart application is usual.
// end::accessing-shared-resources-intro[]
[source,bash]
----
mvn package
java -jar target/helidon-quickstart-se.jar
...
WEB server is up! http://localhost:8080/greet
----
// tag::accessing-shared-resources-main[]
=== Retrieve Metrics
The metrics service rejects attempts to access metrics on behalf of a disallowed origin.
[source,bash]
----
curl -i -H "Origin: http://other.com" http://localhost:8080/metrics

HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Date: Mon, 11 May 2020 11:08:09 -0500
transfer-encoding: chunked
connection: keep-alive
----

But accesses from `foo.com` succeed.
[source,bash]
----
curl -i -H "Origin: http://foo.com" http://localhost:8080/metrics
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://foo.com
Content-Type: text/plain
Date: Mon, 11 May 2020 11:08:16 -0500
Vary: Origin
connection: keep-alive
content-length: 6065

# TYPE base_classloader_loadedClasses_count gauge
# HELP base_classloader_loadedClasses_count Displays the number of classes that are currently loaded in the Java virtual machine.
base_classloader_loadedClasses_count 3568
...
----

=== Retrieve Health
The health service rejects requests from origins not specifically approved.

[source,bash]
----
curl -i -H "Origin: http://foo.com" http://localhost:8080/health

HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Date: Mon, 11 May 2020 12:06:55 -0500
transfer-encoding: chunked
connection: keep-alive
----

It response successfully only to cross-origin requests from `http://there.com`.

[source,bash]
----
curl -i -H "Origin: http://there.com" http://localhost:8080/health
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://there.com
Content-Type: application/json
Date: Mon, 11 May 2020 12:07:32 -0500
Vary: Origin
connection: keep-alive
content-length: 461

{"outcome":"UP",...}
----
// end::accessing-shared-resources-main[]

Commit message:

Make example URLs unclickable; refactor a bit the dependency inclusions to preserve the formatting of numbered lists that include dep. examples

docs/se/cors/04_support-in-builtin-services.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= CORS in Built-in Services
:toc:
:toc-placement: preamble
:pagename: cors-built-in-service-support
:description: Helidon SE CORS Support in Built-in Services
:keywords: helidon, java, cors, se, services
:helidon-tag: https://github.com/oracle/helidon/tree/{helidon-version}
:quickstart-example: {helidon-tag}/examples/quickstarts/helidon-quickstart-se
:cors-spec: https://www.w3.org/TR/cors/
:helidon-se-cors-example: {helidon-tag}/examples/cors
:helidon-tag: https://github.com/oracle/helidon/tree/{helidon-version}
:quickstart-example: {helidon-tag}/examples/quickstarts/helidon-quickstart-se
:javadoc-base-url-api: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.webserver.cors/io/helidon/webserver/cors
:javadoc-base-url-webserver: {javadoc-base-url}io.helidon.webserver/io/helidon/webserver
:cors-se-intro: 01_introduction.adoc
:cors-se-api-doc: 02_using-the-api.adoc
:cors-config-table-src: {cors-se-api-doc}
:cors-dependency-src: {cors-se-api-doc}
:actual-cors-dependency-src: {cors-se-api-doc}
:health-page: se/health/01_health.adoc
:metrics-page: se/metrics/01_metrics.adoc
:openapi-page: se/openapi/01_openapi.adoc
:cors-services-is-se:
:helidon-variant: SE

Several built-in Helidon services -- health, metrics, and OpenAPI -- automatically support cross-origin resource
sharing and you can control how they do so.

// tag::understanding-cors-support-in-services[]
== Understanding CORS Support in Helidon Services
Helidon lets you easily include <<{health-page},health>>, <<{metrics-page},metrics>>, and
<<{openapi-page},OpenAPI>> services in your Helidon application.
These services add endpoints to your application so that clients can retrieve information about it.
As with the application endpoints you write, these endpoints represent resources that can be shared across origins.

For example, several websites related to OpenAPI run a web application in your browser.
You provide the URL for your application to the browser application.
The browser app uses the URL to retrieve, directly from your application, the OpenAPI document
which describes the application's endpoints.
The browser app then displays a user interface you use to "drive" your application:
you provide input, have the web application
send requests to your application endpoints, and view the responses.
This scenario is exactly the situation CORS addresses: an application in the browser from one origin -- the user interface downloaded from the
website -- requests a resource from another origin -- the `/openapi` endpoint which Helidon's OpenAPI built-in
service automatically adds to your application.

Integrating CORS support into these built-in services allows such third-party web sites and their browser apps -- or
more generally, apps from any other origin -- to work with your Helidon application.

Because all three of these built-in Helidon services serve only `GET` endpoints, by default the
integrated CORS support in all three services permits
any origin to share their resources using `GET`, `HEAD`, and `OPTIONS` HTTP requests. You can customize the CORS set-up
for these built-in services independently from each other using
ifdef::cors-services-is-se[ either the Helidon API, configuration, or both.]
ifndef::cors-services-is-se[ configuration.]

// end::understanding-cors-support-in-services[]

// tag::builtin-getting-started[]
== Getting Started
To use built-in services with CORS support and customize the
CORS behavior:

. Add the built-in service or services to your application. The health, metrics, and OpenAPI services automatically
include default CORS support.
. {blank}
+
--
Add a dependency on the Helidon {helidon-variant} CORS artifact to your `pom.xml`.

Even if your own endpoints do not use CORS, you need to add the CORS dependency
if you want the built-in services to support CORS.

include::{cors-dependency-src}[tag=add-cors-dependency]
include::{actual-cors-dependency-src}[tag=actual-cors-dependency]
--
. Use
ifdef::cors-services-is-se[the Helidon API or]
configuration to customize the CORS behavior as needed.

The documentation for the individual built-in services describes how to add each
service to your application, including
adding a Maven
ifdef::cors-services-is-se[dependency and including the service in your application's routing rules.]
ifndef::cors-services-is-se[dependency.]
In your
application's configuration file, the configuration for each service appears under its own key.
|====
| Helidon Service Documentation | Configuration Key

| <<{health-page}, health>> | `health`
| <<{metrics-page}, metrics>> | `metrics`
| <<{openapi-page}, OpenAPI>> | `openapi`
|====

The link:{quickstart-example}[Helidon {helidon-variant} QuickStart example]
uses these services, so you can use that as a template for your
own application, or use the example project itself to experiment with customizing the CORS
behavior in the built-in services.
// end::builtin-getting-started[]

== Controlling CORS for Built-in Services using the API
Although services such as health, metrics, and OpenAPI are built-in to Helidon, to use them your application must create
instances of the services and uses those instances in building your application's routing rules.

Recall that each
service type has a `Builder` class. To control the CORS behavior of a built-in service, follow these steps:

. Create a `Builder` for the type of service of interest.
. Build an instance of `CrossOriginConfig` with the settings you want.
. Invoke the `builder.crossOriginConfig` method, passing that `CrossOriginConfig` instance.
. Invoke the builder's `build` method to initialize the service instance.
. Use the service instance in preparing the routing rules.

The following excerpt shows changes to the link:{quickstart-example}[Helidon SE QuickStart example] which limit
sharing of the `/metrics` endpoint to `\http://foo.com`.
[source,java]
----
private static Routing createRouting(Config config) {

        CrossOriginConfig metricsCrossOriginConfig = CrossOriginConfig.builder() // <1>
                .allowOrigins("http://foo.com")
                .build();
        MetricsSupport metrics = MetricsSupport.builder()
                .crossOriginConfig(metricsCrossOriginConfig) // <2>
                .build();
        GreetService greetService = new GreetService(config);
        HealthSupport health = HealthSupport.builder()
                .addLiveness(HealthChecks.healthChecks())   // Adds a convenient set of checks
                .build();

        return Routing.builder()
                .register(health)                   // Health at "/health"
                .register(metrics)                  // Metrics at "/metrics" // <3>
                .register("/greet", greetService)
                .build();
    }
----
<1> Create the `CrossOriginConfig` for metrics, limiting sharing to `\http://foo.com`.
<2> Use the `CrossOriginConfig` instance in constructing the `MetricsSupport` service.
<3> Use the `MetricsSupport` object in creating the routing rules.

// tag::configuring-cors-for-builtin-services[]
== Configuring CORS for Built-in Services
You can
ifdef::cors-services-is-se[also ]
use configuration to control whether and how each of the built-in services works with CORS.

ifdef::cors-services-is-se[]
Your application can pass configuration to the builder for each built-in service.
endif::[]
For the health, metrics, and OpenAPI services, your configuration can include a section for CORS.

// Tag the following example so we can exclude it from MP which supplies its own complete example.
// tag::se-config-example[]
The following example restricts sharing of the
`/health` resource, provided by the health built-in service, to only the origin `\http://there.com`.
[source,hocon]
----
...
health:
  cors:
    allow-origins: [http://there.com]
...
----
// end::se-config-example[]

// tag::se-code-changes-for-builtin-services-config[]
Modify your application to load the `health` config node and use it to construct the `HealthSupport` service.
The following code shows this change in the the QuickStart SE example.
[source,java]
----
HealthSupport health = HealthSupport.builder()
        .config(config.get("health")) // <1>
        .addLiveness(HealthChecks.healthChecks())   // Adds a convenient set of checks
        .build();
----
<1> Use the `health` config section (if present) to configure the health service.
// end::se-code-changes-for-builtin-services-config[]

You have full control over the CORS configuration for a built-in Helidon service. Use a basic CORS config section
as described in the <<se/cors/03_using-configuration.adoc,CORS configuration>> documentation.

Remember that if you set configuration in a file that you include as part of your application JAR file, you need to
rebuild and restart your application for any changes to take effect.
// end::configuring-cors-for-builtin-services[]

// tag::accessing-shared-resources-intro[]
== Accessing the Shared Resources
=== Build and Run the Application
Build and run the QuickStart application is usual.
// end::accessing-shared-resources-intro[]
[source,bash]
----
mvn package
java -jar target/helidon-quickstart-se.jar
...
WEB server is up! http://localhost:8080/greet
----
// tag::accessing-shared-resources-main[]
=== Retrieve Metrics
The metrics service rejects attempts to access metrics on behalf of a disallowed origin.
[source,bash]
----
curl -i -H "Origin: http://other.com" http://localhost:8080/metrics

HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Date: Mon, 11 May 2020 11:08:09 -0500
transfer-encoding: chunked
connection: keep-alive
----

But accesses from `foo.com` succeed.
[source,bash]
----
curl -i -H "Origin: http://foo.com" http://localhost:8080/metrics
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://foo.com
Content-Type: text/plain
Date: Mon, 11 May 2020 11:08:16 -0500
Vary: Origin
connection: keep-alive
content-length: 6065

# TYPE base_classloader_loadedClasses_count gauge
# HELP base_classloader_loadedClasses_count Displays the number of classes that are currently loaded in the Java virtual machine.
base_classloader_loadedClasses_count 3568
...
----

=== Retrieve Health
The health service rejects requests from origins not specifically approved.

[source,bash]
----
curl -i -H "Origin: http://foo.com" http://localhost:8080/health

HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Date: Mon, 11 May 2020 12:06:55 -0500
transfer-encoding: chunked
connection: keep-alive
----

It response successfully only to cross-origin requests from `\http://there.com`.

[source,bash]
----
curl -i -H "Origin: http://there.com" http://localhost:8080/health
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://there.com
Content-Type: application/json
Date: Mon, 11 May 2020 12:07:32 -0500
Vary: Origin
connection: keep-alive
content-length: 461

{"outcome":"UP",...}
----
// end::accessing-shared-resources-main[]
