docs/mp/reactivemessaging/05_jms.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020, 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= JMS Connector
:toc:
:toc-placement: preamble
:description: Reactive Messaging support for JMS in Helidon MP
:keywords: helidon, mp, messaging, jms
:h1Prefix: MP
:feature-name: JMS Connector
:common-deps-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/dependencies/common_shared.adoc
:microprofile-bundle: false

include::{common-deps-page-prefix-inc}[tag=maven-dependency]

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.helidon.messaging.jms</groupId>
    <artifactId>helidon-messaging-jms</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== Reactive JMS Connector

Connecting streams to JMS with Reactive Messaging couldn't be easier.

=== Config

Connector name: `helidon-jms`

.Attributes
|===
|`username` | User name used to connect JMS session
|`password` | Password to connect JMS session
|`type` | Possible values are: `queue`, `topic`
|`destination` | Queue or topic name
|`acknowledge-mode` |Possible values are: `AUTO_ACKNOWLEDGE`- session automatically acknowledges a client's receipt of a message,
`CLIENT_ACKNOWLEDGE` - receipt of a message is acknowledged only when `Message.ack()` is called manually,
`DUPS_OK_ACKNOWLEDGE` - session lazily acknowledges the delivery of messages. Default value: `AUTO_ACKNOWLEDGE`
|`transacted` | Indicates whether the session will use a local transaction. Default value: `false`
|`message-selector` | JMS API message selector expression based on a subset of the SQL92.
Expression can only access headers and properties, not the payload.
|`named-factory` | Select in case factory is injected as a named bean or configured with name.
|`poll-timeout` | Timeout for polling for next message in every poll cycle in millis. Default value: `50`
|`period-executions` | Period for executing poll cycles in millis. Default value: `100`
|`session-group-id` | When multiple channels share same `session-group-id`,
they share same JMS session and same JDBC connection as well.
|`jndi.jms-factory` | JNDI name of JMS factory.
|`jndi.env-properties` | Environment properties used for creating initial context `java.naming.factory.initial`, `java.naming.provider.url` ...
|===

=== Configured JMS factory

The simplest possible usage is looking up JMS ConnectionFactory in the naming context.

[source,yaml]
.Example of connector config:
----
mp.messaging:

  incoming.from-jms:
    connector: helidon-jms
    destination: messaging-test-queue-1
    type: queue

  outgoing.to-jms:
    connector: helidon-jms
    destination: messaging-test-queue-1
    type: queue

  connector:
    helidon-jms:
      user: Gandalf
      password: mellon
      jndi:
        jms-factory: ConnectionFactory
        env-properties:
          java.naming:
            factory.initial: org.apache.activemq.jndi.ActiveMQInitialContextFactory
            provider.url: tcp://localhost:61616
----

=== Injected JMS factory

In case you need more advanced setup, connector can work with injected factory instance.

[source,java]
.Inject:
----
    @Produces
    @ApplicationScoped
    @Named("active-mq-factory")
    public ConnectionFactory connectionFactory() {
        return new ActiveMQConnectionFactory(config.get("jms.url").asString().get());
    }
----

[source,yaml]
.Config:
----
jms:
  url: tcp://127.0.0.1:61616

mp:
  messaging:
    connector:
      helidon-jms:
        named-factory: active-mq-factory

    outgoing.to-jms:
      connector: helidon-jms
      session-group-id: order-connection-1
      destination: TESTQUEUE
      type: queue

    incoming.from-jms:
      connector: helidon-jms
      session-group-id: order-connection-1
      destination: TESTQUEUE
      type: queue
----

=== Consuming

[source,java]
.Consuming one by one unwrapped value:
----
@Incoming("from-jms")
public void consumeJms(String msg) {
    System.out.println("JMS says: " + msg);
}
----

[source,java]
.Consuming one by one, manual ack:
----
@Incoming("from-jms")
@Acknowledgment(Acknowledgment.Strategy.MANUAL)
public CompletionStage<?> consumeJms(JmsMessage<String> msg) {
    System.out.println("JMS says: " + msg.getPayload());
    return msg.ack();
}
----

=== Producing

[source,java]
.Example of producing to JMS:
----
@Outgoing("to-jms")
public PublisherBuilder<String> produceToJms() {
    return ReactiveStreams.of("test1", "test2");
}
----

[source,java]
.Example of more advanced producing to JMS:
----
@Outgoing("to-jms")
public PublisherBuilder<String> produceToJms() {
    return ReactiveStreams.of("test1", "test2")
                .map(s -> JmsMessage.builder(s)
                              .correlationId(UUID.randomUUID().toString())
                              .property("stringProp", "cool property")
                              .property("byteProp", 4)
                              .property("intProp", 5)
                              .onAck(() -> System.out.println("Acked!"))
                              .build());
}
----
[source,java]
.Example of even more advanced producing to JMS with custom mapper:
----
@Outgoing("to-jms")
public PublisherBuilder<String> produceToJms() {
    return ReactiveStreams.of("test1", "test2")
                .map(s -> JmsMessage.builder(s)
                            .customMapper((p, session) -> {
                                TextMessage textMessage = session.createTextMessage(p);
                                textMessage.setStringProperty("custom-mapped-property", "XXX" + p);
                                return textMessage;
                            })
                            .build()
                    );
}
----

Commit message:

JMS: durable consumer support (AQ multi-consumer queue) (#3007)
* config property client-id for defining JMS connection clientId
* fix broken graceful shutdown with AQ
* add support for durable consumers

Signed-off-by: Daniel Kec <daniel.kec@oracle.com>

docs/mp/reactivemessaging/05_jms.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020, 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= JMS Connector
:toc:
:toc-placement: preamble
:description: Reactive Messaging support for JMS in Helidon MP
:keywords: helidon, mp, messaging, jms
:h1Prefix: MP
:feature-name: JMS Connector
:common-deps-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/dependencies/common_shared.adoc
:microprofile-bundle: false

include::{common-deps-page-prefix-inc}[tag=maven-dependency]

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.helidon.messaging.jms</groupId>
    <artifactId>helidon-messaging-jms</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== Reactive JMS Connector

Connecting streams to JMS with Reactive Messaging couldn't be easier.

=== Config

Connector name: `helidon-jms`

.Attributes
|===
|`username` | User name used to connect JMS session
|`password` | Password to connect JMS session
|`type` | Possible values are: `queue`, `topic`
|`destination` | Queue or topic name
|`acknowledge-mode` |Possible values are: `AUTO_ACKNOWLEDGE`- session automatically acknowledges a client's receipt of a message,
`CLIENT_ACKNOWLEDGE` - receipt of a message is acknowledged only when `Message.ack()` is called manually,
`DUPS_OK_ACKNOWLEDGE` - session lazily acknowledges the delivery of messages. Default value: `AUTO_ACKNOWLEDGE`
|`transacted` | Indicates whether the session will use a local transaction. Default value: `false`
|`message-selector` | JMS API message selector expression based on a subset of the SQL92.
Expression can only access headers and properties, not the payload.
|`client-id` | Client identifier for JMS connection.
|`durable` | True for creating durable consumer (only for topic). Default value: `false`
|`subscriber-name` | Subscriber name for durable consumer used to identify subscription.
|`non-local` | If true then any messages published to the topic using this session's connection,
 or any other connection with the same client identifier,
 will not be added to the durable subscription. Default value: `false`
|`named-factory` | Select in case factory is injected as a named bean or configured with name.
|`poll-timeout` | Timeout for polling for next message in every poll cycle in millis. Default value: `50`
|`period-executions` | Period for executing poll cycles in millis. Default value: `100`
|`session-group-id` | When multiple channels share same `session-group-id`,
they share same JMS session and same JDBC connection as well.
|`jndi.jms-factory` | JNDI name of JMS factory.
|`jndi.env-properties` | Environment properties used for creating initial context `java.naming.factory.initial`, `java.naming.provider.url` ...
|===

=== Configured JMS factory

The simplest possible usage is looking up JMS ConnectionFactory in the naming context.

[source,yaml]
.Example of connector config:
----
mp.messaging:

  incoming.from-jms:
    connector: helidon-jms
    destination: messaging-test-queue-1
    type: queue

  outgoing.to-jms:
    connector: helidon-jms
    destination: messaging-test-queue-1
    type: queue

  connector:
    helidon-jms:
      user: Gandalf
      password: mellon
      jndi:
        jms-factory: ConnectionFactory
        env-properties:
          java.naming:
            factory.initial: org.apache.activemq.jndi.ActiveMQInitialContextFactory
            provider.url: tcp://localhost:61616
----

=== Injected JMS factory

In case you need more advanced setup, connector can work with injected factory instance.

[source,java]
.Inject:
----
    @Produces
    @ApplicationScoped
    @Named("active-mq-factory")
    public ConnectionFactory connectionFactory() {
        return new ActiveMQConnectionFactory(config.get("jms.url").asString().get());
    }
----

[source,yaml]
.Config:
----
jms:
  url: tcp://127.0.0.1:61616

mp:
  messaging:
    connector:
      helidon-jms:
        named-factory: active-mq-factory

    outgoing.to-jms:
      connector: helidon-jms
      session-group-id: order-connection-1
      destination: TESTQUEUE
      type: queue

    incoming.from-jms:
      connector: helidon-jms
      session-group-id: order-connection-1
      destination: TESTQUEUE
      type: queue
----

=== Consuming

[source,java]
.Consuming one by one unwrapped value:
----
@Incoming("from-jms")
public void consumeJms(String msg) {
    System.out.println("JMS says: " + msg);
}
----

[source,java]
.Consuming one by one, manual ack:
----
@Incoming("from-jms")
@Acknowledgment(Acknowledgment.Strategy.MANUAL)
public CompletionStage<?> consumeJms(JmsMessage<String> msg) {
    System.out.println("JMS says: " + msg.getPayload());
    return msg.ack();
}
----

=== Producing

[source,java]
.Example of producing to JMS:
----
@Outgoing("to-jms")
public PublisherBuilder<String> produceToJms() {
    return ReactiveStreams.of("test1", "test2");
}
----

[source,java]
.Example of more advanced producing to JMS:
----
@Outgoing("to-jms")
public PublisherBuilder<String> produceToJms() {
    return ReactiveStreams.of("test1", "test2")
                .map(s -> JmsMessage.builder(s)
                              .correlationId(UUID.randomUUID().toString())
                              .property("stringProp", "cool property")
                              .property("byteProp", 4)
                              .property("intProp", 5)
                              .onAck(() -> System.out.println("Acked!"))
                              .build());
}
----
[source,java]
.Example of even more advanced producing to JMS with custom mapper:
----
@Outgoing("to-jms")
public PublisherBuilder<String> produceToJms() {
    return ReactiveStreams.of("test1", "test2")
                .map(s -> JmsMessage.builder(s)
                            .customMapper((p, session) -> {
                                TextMessage textMessage = session.createTextMessage(p);
                                textMessage.setStringProperty("custom-mapped-property", "XXX" + p);
                                return textMessage;
                            })
                            .build()
                    );
}
----
