examples/cors/README.md, before:


# Helidon SE CORS Example

This example shows a simple greeting application, similar to the one from the 
Helidon SE QuickStart, enhanced with CORS support.

Look at the `resources/application.yaml` file and notice the `restrictive-cors` and `open-cors`
sections. The application loads these to set up CORS for the application's endpoints; two
lines near the end of `Main#createRouting` do the work. If you set the system property `useOverride` to true, the
 application will use the `cors` section of the configuration to override the CORS settings otherwise set up in the 
 app. 

Near the end of the `resources/logging.properties` file, a commented line would turn on `FINE
` logging that would reveal how the Helidon CORS support makes it decisions. To see that logging,
uncomment that line and then package and run the application.
  
## Build and run

With JDK11+
```bash
mvn package
java -jar helidon-examples-cors.jar
```

These normal greeting app endpoints work without change in the requests or the responses:

```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/greet
{"message":"Hello World!"}

curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/greet/Joe
{"message":"Hello Joe!"}

curl -X PUT -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"greeting" : "Hola"}' http://localhost:8080/greet/greeting

curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/greet/Jose
{"message":"Hola Jose!"}
```

The following requests illustrate the CORS protocol.

By setting `Origin` and `Host` headers that do not match we trigger CORS processing in the
 server. Note the new returned headers `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` and `Vary` related to CORS:

```bash
# Follow the CORS protocol for GET
curl -i -X GET -H "Origin: http://foo.com" -H "Host: here.com" http://localhost:8080/greet

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Content-Type: application/json
Date: Thu, 30 Apr 2020 17:25:51 -0500
Vary: Origin
connection: keep-alive
content-length: 27

{"greeting":"Hola World!"}
```

The same happens for a `GET` requesting a personalized greeting (by passing the name of the
 person to be greeted):
```bash
curl -i -X GET -H "Origin: http://foo.com" -H "Host: here.com" http://localhost:8080/greet/Joe
{"greeting":"Hola Joe!"}
```
The CORS protocol requires the client to send a _pre-flight_ request before sending a request
 that changes state on the server, such as `PUT` or `DELETE`, and checking the returned status
  and headers to make sure the server is willing to accept the actual request.
   
Here we send a pre-flight request to get approval for the subsequent `PUT` request to change the
 greeting:
```bash
curl -i -X OPTIONS \
    -H "Access-Control-Request-Method: PUT" \
    -H "Origin: http://foo.com" \
    -H "Host: here.com" \
    http://localhost:8080/greet/greeting

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Access-Control-Allow-Methods: PUT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://foo.com
Date: Thu, 30 Apr 2020 17:30:59 -0500
transfer-encoding: chunked
connection: keep-alive
```
Note the successful status and the `Access-Control-Allow-xxx` headers returned, indicating that the
 server accepted and responded to the pre-flight request.
 
Because of the successful pre-flight, it's OK for us to send the actual greeting change.
```bash
curl -i -X PUT \
    -H "Origin: http://foo.com" \
    -H "Host: here.com" \
    -H "Access-Control-Allow-Methods: PUT" \
    -H "Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://foo.com" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d "{ \"greeting\" : \"Cheers\" }" \
    http://localhost:8080/greet/greeting

HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://foo.com
Date: Thu, 30 Apr 2020 17:32:55 -0500
Vary: Origin
connection: keep-alive
```
And we run one more `GET` to observe the change in the greeting:
```bash
curl -i -X GET -H "Origin: http://foo.com" -H "Host: here.com" http://localhost:8080/greet/Joe
{"greeting":"Cheers Joe!"}
```
Note that the example `MainTest` class follows these same steps.

## Using overrides
The app accepts CORS override settings if you set the system property `useOverride` to true. 

With the same server running, repeat the `OPTIONS` request from above, but change the `Origin` to `other.com`:
```bash
curl -i -X OPTIONS \
    -H "Access-Control-Request-Method: PUT" \
    -H "Origin: http://other.com" \
    -H "Host: here.com" \
    http://localhost:8080/greet/greeting
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Date: Mon, 4 May 2020 10:49:41 -0500
transfer-encoding: chunked
connection: keep-alive
```
This fails because the app set up CORS using the "restrictive-cors" configuration in `application.yaml` which allows 
sharing only with `foo.com` and `there.com`. 

Stop and rerun the app, this time telling it to allow overriding:
```bash
java -DuseOverride=true -jar helidon-examples-cors.jar
```
Send the previous `OPTIONS` request again and note the successful result:
```bash
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Access-Control-Allow-Methods: PUT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://other.com
Access-Control-Max-Age: 3600
Date: Mon, 4 May 2020 18:52:54 -0500
transfer-encoding: chunked
connection: keep-alive
```
By setting the `useOverride` system property, you told the application to use the "cors" configuration in 
`application.yaml`.

Keep in mind that, typically, you would not use a property to control this behavior. You as the developer would decide 
whether your app should provide this overriding feature and, if so, would _always_ look for the "cors" config section
and use it for overriding. Note that there is nothing particular about the config key "cors" here; you can write your
app to look for any config key you want. Just make sure your users know what key value to use to set up any overrides
they want. (We used a property only so that you could see how overriding would work overriding without having to change 
the application code.)

Commit message:

Simplify the app; use overriding all the time in the code; instruct user to uncomment the commented 'cors' section to use the overriding feature

examples/cors/README.md, after:


# Helidon SE CORS Example

This example shows a simple greeting application, similar to the one from the 
Helidon SE QuickStart, enhanced with CORS support.

Look at the `resources/application.yaml` file and notice the `restrictive-cors` and `open-cors`
sections. The application loads these to set up CORS for the application's endpoints; two
lines near the end of `Main#createRouting` do the work. If you set the system property `useOverride` to true, the
 application will use the `cors` section of the configuration to override the CORS settings otherwise set up in the 
 app. 

Near the end of the `resources/logging.properties` file, a commented line would turn on `FINE
` logging that would reveal how the Helidon CORS support makes it decisions. To see that logging,
uncomment that line and then package and run the application.
  
## Build and run

With JDK11+
```bash
mvn package
java -jar helidon-examples-cors.jar
```

These normal greeting app endpoints work without change in the requests or the responses:

```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/greet
{"message":"Hello World!"}

curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/greet/Joe
{"message":"Hello Joe!"}

curl -X PUT -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"greeting" : "Hola"}' http://localhost:8080/greet/greeting

curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/greet/Jose
{"message":"Hola Jose!"}
```

The following requests illustrate the CORS protocol.

By setting `Origin` and `Host` headers that do not match we trigger CORS processing in the
 server. Note the new returned headers `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` and `Vary` related to CORS:

```bash
# Follow the CORS protocol for GET
curl -i -X GET -H "Origin: http://foo.com" -H "Host: here.com" http://localhost:8080/greet

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Content-Type: application/json
Date: Thu, 30 Apr 2020 17:25:51 -0500
Vary: Origin
connection: keep-alive
content-length: 27

{"greeting":"Hola World!"}
```

The same happens for a `GET` requesting a personalized greeting (by passing the name of the
 person to be greeted):
```bash
curl -i -X GET -H "Origin: http://foo.com" -H "Host: here.com" http://localhost:8080/greet/Joe
{"greeting":"Hola Joe!"}
```
The CORS protocol requires the client to send a _pre-flight_ request before sending a request
 that changes state on the server, such as `PUT` or `DELETE`, and checking the returned status
  and headers to make sure the server is willing to accept the actual request.
   
Here we send a pre-flight request to get approval for the subsequent `PUT` request to change the
 greeting:
```bash
curl -i -X OPTIONS \
    -H "Access-Control-Request-Method: PUT" \
    -H "Origin: http://foo.com" \
    -H "Host: here.com" \
    http://localhost:8080/greet/greeting

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Access-Control-Allow-Methods: PUT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://foo.com
Date: Thu, 30 Apr 2020 17:30:59 -0500
transfer-encoding: chunked
connection: keep-alive
```
Note the successful status and the `Access-Control-Allow-xxx` headers returned, indicating that the
 server accepted and responded to the pre-flight request.
 
Because of the successful pre-flight, it's OK for us to send the actual greeting change.
```bash
curl -i -X PUT \
    -H "Origin: http://foo.com" \
    -H "Host: here.com" \
    -H "Access-Control-Allow-Methods: PUT" \
    -H "Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://foo.com" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d "{ \"greeting\" : \"Cheers\" }" \
    http://localhost:8080/greet/greeting

HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://foo.com
Date: Thu, 30 Apr 2020 17:32:55 -0500
Vary: Origin
connection: keep-alive
```
And we run one more `GET` to observe the change in the greeting:
```bash
curl -i -X GET -H "Origin: http://foo.com" -H "Host: here.com" http://localhost:8080/greet/Joe
{"greeting":"Cheers Joe!"}
```
Note that the example `MainTest` class follows these same steps.

## Using overrides
The app accepts CORS override settings if the config contains a "cors" section. (It is commented out in the example.) 

With the same server running, repeat the `OPTIONS` request from above, but change the `Origin` to `other.com`:
```bash
curl -i -X OPTIONS \
    -H "Access-Control-Request-Method: PUT" \
    -H "Origin: http://other.com" \
    -H "Host: here.com" \
    http://localhost:8080/greet/greeting
HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
Date: Mon, 4 May 2020 10:49:41 -0500
transfer-encoding: chunked
connection: keep-alive
```
This fails because the app set up CORS using the "restrictive-cors" configuration in `application.yaml` which allows 
sharing only with `foo.com` and `there.com`. 

Stop the running app, uncomment the commented section at the end of `application.yaml`, and build and run the app again.
```bash
java  -jar helidon-examples-cors.jar
```
Send the previous `OPTIONS` request again and note the successful result:
```bash
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Access-Control-Allow-Methods: PUT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://other.com
Access-Control-Max-Age: 3600
Date: Mon, 4 May 2020 18:52:54 -0500
transfer-encoding: chunked
connection: keep-alive
```
By uncommenting the override portion of the config file, you told the application to use the "cors" configuration in 
`application.yaml` for overriding. You can choose whatever key name you want for the override. Just make sure you tell 
your end users whatever the key is your app uses for overrides.
