docs/shared/security/providers/http-digest-auth.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2018, 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

=== HTTP Digest Authentication Provider
:description: Helidon Security HTTP Digest Provider
:keywords: helidon, security, digest

HTTP Digest authentication support

==== Setup

[source,xml]
.Maven dependency
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.helidon.security.providers</groupId>
    <artifactId>helidon-security-providers-http-auth</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

[source,text]
.Provider class name
----
io.helidon.security.providers.httpauth.HttpDigestAuthProvider
----

[source,text]
.Provider configuration key
----
http-digest-auth
----

==== Example code

[source,yaml]
.Configuration example
----
security:
  providers:
  - http-digest-auth:
      realm: "helidon"
      server-secret: "${CLEAR=service-wide-secret-not-known-outside}"
      users:
      - login: "john"
        password: "${CLEAR=password}"
        roles: ["admin"]
      - login: "jack"
        password: "password"
        roles: ["user", "admin"]
----

==== Configuration options
The following table shows all configuration options of the provider and their default values

[cols="2,2,5"]

|===
|key |default value |description

|`realm` |`helidon` |The realm shown in challenge when user accesses a service without authentication
|`principal-type` |`USER` |Type of authenticated entity - either `USER` or `SERVICE`, can be used in combination with
                            other authentication mechanism to authenticate both the user (as in person sitting in front of a computer)
                            and a service (as in the application requesting this service on user's behalf)
|`users` |{nbsp} |List of users when using configuration based approach. As an alternative, you can implement a java service (see below).
|`algorithm` |`MD5` |Only `MD5` supported
|`nonce-timeout-millis` |1 day |Number of milliseconds for the nonce timeout
|`server-secret` |random |A string to use as a server secret - this is to use digest auth between multiple servers (e.g. when in a cluster). Used to encrypt nonce. This must not be known outside of this app, as others may create digest requests we would trust.
|`qop` |`NONE` |only `AUTH` supported. If left empty, uses the legacy approach (older RFC version). `AUTH-INT` is not supported.
|===

==== How does it work?
See https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7616[].

*Authentication of request*

When a request is received without the `Authorization: digest ....` header, a challenge is returned to provide such
authentication using `WWW-Authenticate` header.

When a request is received with the `Authorization: digest ....` header, the request is validated
against configured users (and users obtained from custom service if any provided).

Subject is created based on the username and roles provided by the user store.

*Custom user store*

Java service loader service `io.helidon.security.providers.httpauth.spi.UserStoreService` can be implemented to provide
 users to the provider, such as when validated against an internal database or LDAP server.
The user store is defined so you never need the clear text password of the user.

_Note on security of HTTP Digest Authenticaton_

These authentication schemes
should be _obsolete_, though they provide a very easy way to test a protected resource.

Commit message:

integration test and doc update for optional flag

docs/shared/security/providers/http-digest-auth.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2018, 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

=== HTTP Digest Authentication Provider
:description: Helidon Security HTTP Digest Provider
:keywords: helidon, security, digest

HTTP Digest authentication support

==== Setup

[source,xml]
.Maven dependency
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.helidon.security.providers</groupId>
    <artifactId>helidon-security-providers-http-auth</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

[source,text]
.Provider class name
----
io.helidon.security.providers.httpauth.HttpDigestAuthProvider
----

[source,text]
.Provider configuration key
----
http-digest-auth
----

==== Example code

[source,yaml]
.Configuration example
----
security:
  providers:
  - http-digest-auth:
      realm: "helidon"
      server-secret: "${CLEAR=service-wide-secret-not-known-outside}"
      users:
      - login: "john"
        password: "${CLEAR=password}"
        roles: ["admin"]
      - login: "jack"
        password: "password"
        roles: ["user", "admin"]
----

==== Configuration options
The following table shows all configuration options of the provider and their default values

[cols="2,2,5"]

|===
|key |default value |description

|`optional` |`false` |If set to `true`, failure to authenticate will return `ABSTAIN` result instead of `FAILURE`. This is
an important distinction when more than one provider is used
|`realm` |`helidon` |The realm shown in challenge when user accesses a service without authentication
|`principal-type` |`USER` |Type of authenticated entity - either `USER` or `SERVICE`, can be used in combination with
                            other authentication mechanism to authenticate both the user (as in person sitting in front of a computer)
                            and a service (as in the application requesting this service on user's behalf)
|`users` |{nbsp} |List of users when using configuration based approach. As an alternative, you can implement a java service (see below).
|`algorithm` |`MD5` |Only `MD5` supported
|`nonce-timeout-millis` |1 day |Number of milliseconds for the nonce timeout
|`server-secret` |random |A string to use as a server secret - this is to use digest auth between multiple servers (e.g. when in a cluster). Used to encrypt nonce. This must not be known outside of this app, as others may create digest requests we would trust.
|`qop` |`NONE` |only `AUTH` supported. If left empty, uses the legacy approach (older RFC version). `AUTH-INT` is not supported.
|===

==== How does it work?
See https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7616[].

*Authentication of request*

When a request is received without the `Authorization: digest ....` header, a challenge is returned to provide such
authentication using `WWW-Authenticate` header.

When a request is received with the `Authorization: digest ....` header, the request is validated
against configured users (and users obtained from custom service if any provided).

Subject is created based on the username and roles provided by the user store.

*Custom user store*

Java service loader service `io.helidon.security.providers.httpauth.spi.UserStoreService` can be implemented to provide
 users to the provider, such as when validated against an internal database or LDAP server.
The user store is defined so you never need the clear text password of the user.

_Note on security of HTTP Digest Authenticaton_

These authentication schemes
should be _obsolete_, though they provide a very easy way to test a protected resource.
