docs/shared/security/providers/oidc.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2018, 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:description: Helidon Security OIDC Provider
:keywords: helidon, security, oidc

[source,text]
.Provider class name
----
io.helidon.security.providers.oidc.OidcProvider
----

[source,text]
.Provider configuration key
----
oidc
----

==== Example code
https://github.com/oracle/helidon/tree/master/examples/security/idcs-login[]

[source,yaml]
.Configuration example
----
security:
  providers:
  - oidc:
      client-id: "client-id-of-this-service"
      client-secret: "${CLEAR=client-secret-of-this-service}"
      identity-uri: "http://your-tenant.identity-server.com"
      frontend-uri: "http://my-service:8080"
      audience: "http://my-service"
      outbound:
        - name: "internal-services"
          hosts: ["*.example.org"]
          outbound-token:
            header: "X-Internal-Auth"
----

==== Configuration options
The following table shows all configuration options of the provider and their default values

[cols="2,2,5"]

|===
|key |default value |description

|`client-id` |{nbsp} |Client ID as generated by identity server
|`client-secret` |{nbsp} |Client secret as generated by identity server
|`identity-uri` |{nbsp} |URI of the identity server, base used to retrieve OIDC metadata
|`frontend-uri` |{nbsp} |Full URI of this service for redirects back from OIDC server
|`issuer` |`issuer` from OIDC metadata |Issuer of token - each JWT is validated to check the issuer
|`audience` | {nbsp} |Audience of a token - each JWT is validated to check the audience
|`proxy-protocol` |`http` |Proxy protocol to use when proxy is used
|`proxy-host` |`null` |Proxy host to use. When defined, triggers usage of proxy for HTTP requests
|`proxy-port` |`80` |Port of the proxy server to use
|`redirect-uri` |`/oidc/redirect` |URI to register web server component on, used by the OIDC server to redirect authorization requests to after a user logs in or approves scopes. Note that usually the redirect URI configured here must be the same one as configured on OIDC server.
|`scope-audience` |empty string |Audience of the scope required by this application. This is prefixed to the scope name when requesting scopes from the identity server.
|`cookie-use` |`true` |Whether to use cookie to store JWT. If used, redirects happen only in case the user is not authenticated or has insufficient scopes
|`cookie-name` |`JSESSIONID` |Name of the cookie
|`cookie-domain` |{nbsp} |Domain the cookie is valid for. Not used by default
|`cookie-path` |`/` |Path the cookie is valid for.
|`cookie-max-age-seconds` |{nsbp} |When using cookie, used to set MaxAge attribute of the cookie, defining how long the cookie is valid.
|`cookie-http-only` |`true` |When using cookie, if set to true, the HttpOnly attribute will be configured.
|`cookie-secure` |`false` |When using cookie, if set to true, the Secure attribute will be configured.
|`cookie-same-site` |`Lax` |When using cookie, used to set the SameSite cookie value. Can be "Strict" or "Lax". Setting this to "Strict" will result in infinite redirects when calling OIDC on a different host.
|`query-param-use` |`false` |Whether to expect JWT in a query parameter
|`query-param-name` |`accessToken` |Name of a query parameter that contains the JWT token when parameter is used.
|`header-use` |`false` |Whether to expect JWT in a header field.
|`header-token` |`Authorization` header with prefix `bearer` |A TokenHandler configuration to process header containing a JWT
|`oidc-metadata-well-known` |`true` |If set to true, metadata will be loaded from default (well known) location, unless it is explicitly defined using oidc-metadata-resource. If set to false, it would not be loaded even if oidc-metadata-resource is not defined. In such a case all URIs must be explicitly defined (e.g. token-endpoint-uri).
|`oidc-metadata.resource` |`identity-uri/.well-known/openid-configuration` |Resource configuration for OIDC Metadata containing endpoints to various identity services, as well as information about the identity server. See Resource.create(io.helidon.config.Config)
|`token-endpoint-uri` |`token_endpoint` in OIDC metadata, or `identity-url/oauth2/v1/token` if not available |URI of a token endpoint used to obtain a JWT based on the authentication code.
|`authorization-endpoint-uri` |"authorization_endpoint" in OIDC metadata, or `identity-uri/oauth2/v1/authorize` if not available |URI of an authorization endpoint used to redirect users to for logging-in.
|`validate-with-jwk` |`true` |When true - validate against jwk defined by "sign-jwk", when false validate JWT through OIDC Server endpoint "validation-endpoint-uri"
|`sign-jwk.resource` |"jwks-uri" in OIDC metadata, or `identity-uri/admin/v1/SigningCert/jwk` if not available, only needed when jwt validation is done by us |A resource pointing to JWK with public keys of signing certificates used to validate JWT. See Resource.create(io.helidon.config.Config)
|`introspect-endpoint-uri` |"introspection_endpoint" in OIDC metadata, or `identity-uri/oauth2/v1/introspect` |When validate-with-jwk is set to "false", this is the endpoint used
|`base-scopes` |`openid` |Configure scopes to be requested by default. If the scope has a qualifier, it must be included here
|`redirect` |`true` |Whether to redirect to identity server when authentication failed.
|`realm` |`helidon` |Realm returned in HTTP response if redirect is not enabled or possible.
|`redirect-attempt-param` |`h_ra` |Query parameter holding the number of times we redirected to an identity server. Customizable to prevent conflicts with application parameters
|`max-redirects` |`5` |Maximal number of times we can redirect to an identity server. When the number is reached, no further redirects happen and the request finishes with an error (status 401)
|`server-type` |{nbsp} |Type of identity server. Currently supported is idcs or not configured (for default).
|`propagate` |{nbsp} |Whether to propagate the token we have. Defaults to `false` unless an outbound configuration is defined
|`outbound` |{nbsp} |A list of outbound configurations
|`outbound.*.name` |{nbsp} |Required name of outbound configuration
|`outbound.*.transports` |any transport |An array of transports this outbound configuration should be used for
|`outbound.*.hosts` |any host |An array of hosts this outbound configuration should be used for, can be a regular expression
|`outbound.*.paths` |any path |An array of paths this outbound configuration should be used for (such as `/greet`), can be a regular expression
|`outbound.*.methods` |any method |An array of HTTP methods this outbound configuration should be used for
|`outbound.*.outbound-token` |`Authorization` header with `bearer` prefix |Configuration of outbound header used to propagate
|`outbound.*.outbound-token.header` |{nbsp} |Name of the header used to propagate the token
|`outbound.*.outbound-token.prefix` |{nbsp} |Prefix for the header value, such as `"bearer"` (only one of `prefix`, `regexp` and `format` should be defined, `regexp` wins over `prefix`, `format` wins over `regexp`)
|`outbound.*.outbound-token.format` |{nbsp} |String format with a single parameter to create the header value, such as `"bearer %1s"`
|`outbound.*.outbound-token.regexp` |{nbsp} |Regular expression to create the header value, such as `"bearer (.*)"`
|===

==== How does it work?
At Helidon startup, if OIDC provider is configured, the following will happen:

1. `client-id`, `client-secret`, and `identityUri` are validated - these must provide values
2. Unless all resources are configured as local resources, the provider attempts
to contact the `oidc-metadata.resource` endpoint to retrieve all endpoints

At runtime, depending on configuration...

If a request comes without a token or with insufficient scopes:

1. If `redirect` is set to `true` (default), request is redirected to the authorization
endpoint of the identity server. If set to false, `401` is returned
2. User authenticates against the identity server
3. The identity server redirects back to Helidon service with a code
4. Helidon service contacts the identity server's token endpoint, to exchange the code
for a JWT
5. The JWT is stored in a cookie (if cookie support is enabled, which it is by default)
6. Helidon service redirects to original endpoint (on itself)

Helidon obtains a token from request (from cookie, header, or query parameter):

1. Token is parsed as a singed JWT
2. We validate the JWT signature either against local JWK or against the identity server's
introspection endpoint depending on configuration
3. We validate the issuer and audience of the token if it matches the configured values
4. A subject is created from the JWT, including scopes from the token
5. We validate that we have sufficient scopes to proceed, and return `403` if not
6. Handling is returned to security to process other security providers

Commit message:

Integration test and doc update for optional flag support on auth providers (#3191)

docs/shared/security/providers/oidc.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2018, 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:description: Helidon Security OIDC Provider
:keywords: helidon, security, oidc

[source,text]
.Provider class name
----
io.helidon.security.providers.oidc.OidcProvider
----

[source,text]
.Provider configuration key
----
oidc
----

==== Example code
https://github.com/oracle/helidon/tree/master/examples/security/idcs-login[]

[source,yaml]
.Configuration example
----
security:
  providers:
  - oidc:
      client-id: "client-id-of-this-service"
      client-secret: "${CLEAR=client-secret-of-this-service}"
      identity-uri: "http://your-tenant.identity-server.com"
      frontend-uri: "http://my-service:8080"
      audience: "http://my-service"
      outbound:
        - name: "internal-services"
          hosts: ["*.example.org"]
          outbound-token:
            header: "X-Internal-Auth"
----

==== Configuration options
The following table shows all configuration options of the provider and their default values

[cols="2,2,5"]

|===
|key |default value |description

|`optional` |`false` |If set to `true`, failure to authenticate will return `ABSTAIN` result instead of `FAILURE`. This is
an important distinction when more than one provider is used
|`client-id` |{nbsp} |Client ID as generated by identity server
|`client-secret` |{nbsp} |Client secret as generated by identity server
|`identity-uri` |{nbsp} |URI of the identity server, base used to retrieve OIDC metadata
|`frontend-uri` |{nbsp} |Full URI of this service for redirects back from OIDC server
|`issuer` |`issuer` from OIDC metadata |Issuer of token - each JWT is validated to check the issuer
|`audience` | {nbsp} |Audience of a token - each JWT is validated to check the audience
|`proxy-protocol` |`http` |Proxy protocol to use when proxy is used
|`proxy-host` |`null` |Proxy host to use. When defined, triggers usage of proxy for HTTP requests
|`proxy-port` |`80` |Port of the proxy server to use
|`redirect-uri` |`/oidc/redirect` |URI to register web server component on, used by the OIDC server to redirect authorization requests to after a user logs in or approves scopes. Note that usually the redirect URI configured here must be the same one as configured on OIDC server.
|`scope-audience` |empty string |Audience of the scope required by this application. This is prefixed to the scope name when requesting scopes from the identity server.
|`cookie-use` |`true` |Whether to use cookie to store JWT. If used, redirects happen only in case the user is not authenticated or has insufficient scopes
|`cookie-name` |`JSESSIONID` |Name of the cookie
|`cookie-domain` |{nbsp} |Domain the cookie is valid for. Not used by default
|`cookie-path` |`/` |Path the cookie is valid for.
|`cookie-max-age-seconds` |{nsbp} |When using cookie, used to set MaxAge attribute of the cookie, defining how long the cookie is valid.
|`cookie-http-only` |`true` |When using cookie, if set to true, the HttpOnly attribute will be configured.
|`cookie-secure` |`false` |When using cookie, if set to true, the Secure attribute will be configured.
|`cookie-same-site` |`Lax` |When using cookie, used to set the SameSite cookie value. Can be "Strict" or "Lax". Setting this to "Strict" will result in infinite redirects when calling OIDC on a different host.
|`query-param-use` |`false` |Whether to expect JWT in a query parameter
|`query-param-name` |`accessToken` |Name of a query parameter that contains the JWT token when parameter is used.
|`header-use` |`false` |Whether to expect JWT in a header field.
|`header-token` |`Authorization` header with prefix `bearer` |A TokenHandler configuration to process header containing a JWT
|`oidc-metadata-well-known` |`true` |If set to true, metadata will be loaded from default (well known) location, unless it is explicitly defined using oidc-metadata-resource. If set to false, it would not be loaded even if oidc-metadata-resource is not defined. In such a case all URIs must be explicitly defined (e.g. token-endpoint-uri).
|`oidc-metadata.resource` |`identity-uri/.well-known/openid-configuration` |Resource configuration for OIDC Metadata containing endpoints to various identity services, as well as information about the identity server. See Resource.create(io.helidon.config.Config)
|`token-endpoint-uri` |`token_endpoint` in OIDC metadata, or `identity-url/oauth2/v1/token` if not available |URI of a token endpoint used to obtain a JWT based on the authentication code.
|`authorization-endpoint-uri` |"authorization_endpoint" in OIDC metadata, or `identity-uri/oauth2/v1/authorize` if not available |URI of an authorization endpoint used to redirect users to for logging-in.
|`validate-with-jwk` |`true` |When true - validate against jwk defined by "sign-jwk", when false validate JWT through OIDC Server endpoint "validation-endpoint-uri"
|`sign-jwk.resource` |"jwks-uri" in OIDC metadata, or `identity-uri/admin/v1/SigningCert/jwk` if not available, only needed when jwt validation is done by us |A resource pointing to JWK with public keys of signing certificates used to validate JWT. See Resource.create(io.helidon.config.Config)
|`introspect-endpoint-uri` |"introspection_endpoint" in OIDC metadata, or `identity-uri/oauth2/v1/introspect` |When validate-with-jwk is set to "false", this is the endpoint used
|`base-scopes` |`openid` |Configure scopes to be requested by default. If the scope has a qualifier, it must be included here
|`redirect` |`true` |Whether to redirect to identity server when authentication failed.
|`realm` |`helidon` |Realm returned in HTTP response if redirect is not enabled or possible.
|`redirect-attempt-param` |`h_ra` |Query parameter holding the number of times we redirected to an identity server. Customizable to prevent conflicts with application parameters
|`max-redirects` |`5` |Maximal number of times we can redirect to an identity server. When the number is reached, no further redirects happen and the request finishes with an error (status 401)
|`server-type` |{nbsp} |Type of identity server. Currently supported is idcs or not configured (for default).
|`propagate` |{nbsp} |Whether to propagate the token we have. Defaults to `false` unless an outbound configuration is defined
|`outbound` |{nbsp} |A list of outbound configurations
|`outbound.*.name` |{nbsp} |Required name of outbound configuration
|`outbound.*.transports` |any transport |An array of transports this outbound configuration should be used for
|`outbound.*.hosts` |any host |An array of hosts this outbound configuration should be used for, can be a regular expression
|`outbound.*.paths` |any path |An array of paths this outbound configuration should be used for (such as `/greet`), can be a regular expression
|`outbound.*.methods` |any method |An array of HTTP methods this outbound configuration should be used for
|`outbound.*.outbound-token` |`Authorization` header with `bearer` prefix |Configuration of outbound header used to propagate
|`outbound.*.outbound-token.header` |{nbsp} |Name of the header used to propagate the token
|`outbound.*.outbound-token.prefix` |{nbsp} |Prefix for the header value, such as `"bearer"` (only one of `prefix`, `regexp` and `format` should be defined, `regexp` wins over `prefix`, `format` wins over `regexp`)
|`outbound.*.outbound-token.format` |{nbsp} |String format with a single parameter to create the header value, such as `"bearer %1s"`
|`outbound.*.outbound-token.regexp` |{nbsp} |Regular expression to create the header value, such as `"bearer (.*)"`
|===

==== How does it work?
At Helidon startup, if OIDC provider is configured, the following will happen:

1. `client-id`, `client-secret`, and `identityUri` are validated - these must provide values
2. Unless all resources are configured as local resources, the provider attempts
to contact the `oidc-metadata.resource` endpoint to retrieve all endpoints

At runtime, depending on configuration...

If a request comes without a token or with insufficient scopes:

1. If `redirect` is set to `true` (default), request is redirected to the authorization
endpoint of the identity server. If set to false, `401` is returned
2. User authenticates against the identity server
3. The identity server redirects back to Helidon service with a code
4. Helidon service contacts the identity server's token endpoint, to exchange the code
for a JWT
5. The JWT is stored in a cookie (if cookie support is enabled, which it is by default)
6. Helidon service redirects to original endpoint (on itself)

Helidon obtains a token from request (from cookie, header, or query parameter):

1. Token is parsed as a singed JWT
2. We validate the JWT signature either against local JWK or against the identity server's
introspection endpoint depending on configuration
3. We validate the issuer and audience of the token if it matches the configured values
4. A subject is created from the JWT, including scopes from the token
5. We validate that we have sufficient scopes to proceed, and return `403` if not
6. Handling is returned to security to process other security providers
