docs/common/guides/graalnative.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020, 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////


== Introduction

https://www.graalvm.org/docs/reference-manual/aot-compilation/[Native images] are ahead-of-time compiled Java code that result in a self
contained native executable. When used appropriately native images have dramatically faster
startup and lower runtime memory overhead compared to a Java VM.

In this guide you will learn how to build a native image locally on your machine, as well as using Docker.

== What You Need

|===
|About 10 minutes
| <<about/03_prerequisites.adoc,Helidon Prerequisites>>
| GraalVM CE https://github.com/graalvm/graalvm-ce-builds/releases/tag/vm-21.1.0[21.1.0]
|===

== Install GraalVM and the Native Image Command

After https://github.com/graalvm/graalvm-ce-builds/releases[downloading and installing] GraalVM,
set the `GRAALVM_HOME` environment variable to point at your GraalVM installation.

[source,bash]
----
# Your path might be different
export GRAALVM_HOME=/usr/local/graalvm-ce-21.1.0/Contents/Home/
----

Then install the optional `native-image` command:

[source,bash]
----
$GRAALVM_HOME/bin/gu install native-image
----

And verify:

[source,bash]
----
$GRAALVM_HOME/bin/java -version
$GRAALVM_HOME/bin/native-image --version
----

== Generate The Project

Generate the project using the Helidon {helidon-uc-flavor} Quickstart Maven archetype.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
mvn -U archetype:generate -DinteractiveMode=false \
    -DarchetypeGroupId=io.helidon.archetypes \
    -DarchetypeArtifactId=helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor} \
    -DarchetypeVersion={helidon-version} \
    -DgroupId=io.helidon.examples \
    -DartifactId=helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor} \
    -Dpackage=io.helidon.examples.quickstart.{helidon-lc-flavor}

----

The archetype generates a Maven project in your current directory
(for example, `helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}`). Change into this directory and build.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
cd helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}
mvn package
----

At this point you can run the application using the JVM:

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
java -jar target/helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}.jar
----

In another shell test an endpoint:

[source,bash]
----
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/greet
----

The application should respond with `{"message":"Hello World!"}`

Now stop the running application (by pressing Ctrl+C).

For more information about the Quickstart application and other enpoints it supports see the
<<{helidon-lc-flavor}/guides/02_quickstart.adoc,Helidon {helidon-uc-flavor} Quickstart Guide>>.

== Building a Native Image

You can build a native executable in 2 different ways:

* With a local installation of GraalVM
* Using Docker

=== Local build

Make sure you have GraalVM locally installed:

[source,bash]
----
$GRAALVM_HOME/bin/native-image --version
----

Build the native image using the native image profile:

[source,bash]
----
mvn package -Pnative-image
----

[TIP]
This uses the `helidon-maven-plugin` to perform the native compilation using your installed
copy of GraalVM. It might take a while to complete.

Once it completes start the application using the native executable (no JVM!):

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
./target/helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}
----

Yep, it starts fast. You can exercise the application's endpoints as before.

=== Multi-stage Docker build

Build the "native" Docker Image

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker build -t helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}-native -f Dockerfile.native .
----

[TIP]
This does a full build inside the Docker container. The first
time you run it, it will take a while because it is downloading all
of the Maven dependencies and caching them in a Docker layer.
Subsequent builds will be much faster as long as you don't change
the `pom.xml` file. If the pom is modified then the dependencies
will be re-downloaded.

Start the application:

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}-native:latest
----

Again, it starts fast. You can exercise the application's endpoints as before.

== When should I use Native Images?

Native images are ideal for applications with high horizontal scalability requirements where
the ability to rapidly scale out to numerous instances is important.

That said, native images do have some https://github.com/oracle/graal/blob/master/substratevm/Limitations.md[limitations],
and for long running applications where startup and footprint are less of a priority, the Java SE
HotSpot VM might be more appropriate.

For information about creating custom Java runtime images see
<<{helidon-lc-flavor}/guides/37_jlink_image.adoc,Custom Runtime Images with `jlink`>>

Commit message:

Added prereqs to each guide se/mp (#3168)
* added prereqs to each guide se/mp

* added prereqs to each guide se/mp

* updates to common reqs

* Fix copyright error due to extra blank lines

* fixed copyright issues and bug fixes

* remove junit5 doc from PR

Co-authored-by: tim.quinn@oracle.com <tim.quinn@oracle.com>

docs/common/guides/graalnative.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020, 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:common-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/common_prereqs/common_prereqs.adoc

== Introduction

https://www.graalvm.org/docs/reference-manual/aot-compilation/[Native images] are ahead-of-time compiled Java code that result in a self
contained native executable. When used appropriately native images have dramatically faster
startup and lower runtime memory overhead compared to a Java VM.

In this guide you will learn how to build a native image locally on your machine, as well as using Docker.

== What You Need

For this 10 minute tutorial, you will need the following:

include::{common-page-prefix-inc}[tag=common-prereqs-graal]

== Install GraalVM and the Native Image Command

After https://github.com/graalvm/graalvm-ce-builds/releases[downloading and installing] GraalVM,
set the `GRAALVM_HOME` environment variable to point at your GraalVM installation.

[source,bash]
----
# Your path might be different
export GRAALVM_HOME=/usr/local/graalvm-ce-21.1.0/Contents/Home/
----

Then install the optional `native-image` command:

[source,bash]
----
$GRAALVM_HOME/bin/gu install native-image
----

And verify:

[source,bash]
----
$GRAALVM_HOME/bin/java -version
$GRAALVM_HOME/bin/native-image --version
----

== Generate the Project

Generate the project using the Helidon {helidon-uc-flavor} Quickstart Maven archetype.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
mvn -U archetype:generate -DinteractiveMode=false \
    -DarchetypeGroupId=io.helidon.archetypes \
    -DarchetypeArtifactId=helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor} \
    -DarchetypeVersion={helidon-version} \
    -DgroupId=io.helidon.examples \
    -DartifactId=helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor} \
    -Dpackage=io.helidon.examples.quickstart.{helidon-lc-flavor}

----

The archetype generates a Maven project in your current directory
(for example, `helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}`). Change into this directory and build.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
cd helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}
mvn package
----

At this point you can run the application using the JVM:

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
java -jar target/helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}.jar
----

In another shell test an endpoint:

[source,bash]
----
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/greet
----

The application should respond with `{"message":"Hello World!"}`

Now stop the running application (by pressing Ctrl+C).

For more information about the Quickstart application and other enpoints it supports see the
<<{helidon-lc-flavor}/guides/02_quickstart.adoc,Helidon {helidon-uc-flavor} Quickstart Guide>>.

== Building a Native Image

You can build a native executable in 2 different ways:

* With a local installation of GraalVM
* Using Docker

=== Local build

Make sure you have GraalVM locally installed:

[source,bash]
----
$GRAALVM_HOME/bin/native-image --version
----

Build the native image using the native image profile:

[source,bash]
----
mvn package -Pnative-image
----

[TIP]
This uses the `helidon-maven-plugin` to perform the native compilation using your installed
copy of GraalVM. It might take a while to complete.

Once it completes start the application using the native executable (no JVM!):

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
./target/helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}
----

Yep, it starts fast. You can exercise the application's endpoints as before.

=== Multi-stage Docker build

Build the "native" Docker image

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker build -t helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}-native -f Dockerfile.native .
----

[TIP]
This does a full build inside the Docker container. The first
time you run it, it will take a while because it is downloading all
of the Maven dependencies and caching them in a Docker layer.
Subsequent builds will be much faster as long as you don't change
the `pom.xml` file. If the pom is modified then the dependencies
will be re-downloaded.

Start the application:

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}-native:latest
----

Again, it starts fast. You can exercise the application's endpoints as before.

== When should I use Native Images?

Native images are ideal for applications with high horizontal scalability requirements where
the ability to rapidly scale out to numerous instances is important.

That said, native images do have some https://github.com/oracle/graal/blob/master/substratevm/Limitations.md[limitations],
and for long running applications where startup and footprint are less of a priority, the Java SE
HotSpot VM might be more appropriate.

For information about creating custom Java runtime images see
<<{helidon-lc-flavor}/guides/37_jlink_image.adoc,Custom Runtime Images with `jlink`>>
