docs/common/guides/jlink_image.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

== Introduction

JDK 9 introduced the https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/tools/jlink.html[`jlink`]
command that supports assembling a set of modules and their dependencies into a custom
runtime image. The `helidon-maven-plugin` has support for easily creating a custom runtime image for your
Helidon application resulting in a smaller, better performing runtime.

In this guide you will learn how to build a custom runtime image locally on your machine,
as well as how to build it in a Docker image.

== What You Need

|===
|About 10 minutes
| <<about/03_prerequisites.adoc,Helidon Prerequisites>>
|===

== Verify Java 11 or Newer

[source,bash]
----
$JAVA_HOME/bin/java --version
----

== Generate The Project

Generate the project using the Helidon {helidon-uc-flavor} Quickstart Maven archetype.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
mvn -U archetype:generate -DinteractiveMode=false \
    -DarchetypeGroupId=io.helidon.archetypes \
    -DarchetypeArtifactId=helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor} \
    -DarchetypeVersion={helidon-version} \
    -DgroupId=io.helidon.examples \
    -DartifactId=helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor} \
    -Dpackage=io.helidon.examples.quickstart.{helidon-lc-flavor}
----

The archetype generates a Maven project in your current directory
(for example, `helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}`). Change into this directory and build.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
cd helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}
mvn package
----

At this point you can run the application using the JVM:

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
java -jar target/helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}.jar
----

In another shell test an endpoint:

[source,bash]
----
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/greet
----

The application should respond with `{"message":"Hello World!"}`

Now stop the running application (by pressing Ctrl+C).

For more information about the Quickstart application and other enpoints it supports see the
<<{helidon-lc-flavor}/guides/02_quickstart.adoc,Helidon {helidon-uc-flavor} quickstart Guide>>.

== Building a Custom Runtime Image

You can build a custom runtime image in 2 different ways:

* Locally, on your desktop
* Using Docker

=== Local build

Build the custom runtime image using the jlink image profile:

[source,bash]
----
mvn package -Pjlink-image
----

[TIP]
This uses the `helidon-maven-plugin` to perform the custom image generation.

After the build completes it will report some statistics about the build including
the reduction in image size.

The `target/helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}-jri` directory is a self contained
custom image of your application. It contains your application, its runtime
dependencies and the JDK modules it depends on. You can start your application
using the provide
`start` script:

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
./target/helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}-jri/bin/start
----

=== Class Data Sharing (CDS) Archive

Aslo included in the custom image is a Class Data Sharing (CDS) archive that
improves your application's startup performance and in-memory footprint.
You can learn more about Class Data Sharing in the
https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/vm/class-data-sharing.html[JDK documentation].

The CDS archive increases your image size to get these performance optimizations.
It can be of significant size (tens of MB). The size of the CDS archive is
reported at the end of the build output.

If you'd rather have a smaller image size (with a slightly increased startup time) you
can skip the creation of the CDS archive by executing your build like this:

[source,bash]
----
mvn package -Pjlink-image -Djlink.image.addClassDataSharingArchive=false
----

For more information on available configuration options see the
https://github.com/oracle/helidon-build-tools/tree/master/helidon-maven-plugin[`helidon-maven-plugin` documentation].

=== Multi-stage Docker build

To build a Docker image with a custom Java runtime image use the jlink
Dockerfile included with the quickstart.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker build -t helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}-jri -f Dockerfile.jlink .
----

[TIP]
This does a full build inside the Docker container. The first
time you run it, it will take a while because it is downloading all
of the Maven dependencies and caching them in a Docker layer.
Subsequent builds will be much faster as long as you don't change
the `pom.xml` file. If the pom is modified then the dependencies
will be re-downloaded.

Start the application:

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}-jri:latest
----

You can exercise the application's endpoints as before.

== When should you use a Custom Runtime Image?

Custom runtime images are ideal for use when you want all of the runtime performance of
the JDK JVM in a reasonably compact form.

For cases where absolute minimal startup time and image size are required, then
consider using <<{helidon-lc-flavor}/guides/36_graalnative.adoc,GraalVM Native Images>>.

Commit message:

Update jlink guide with *.jmod requirement.

docs/common/guides/jlink_image.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

== Introduction

JDK 9 introduced the https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/tools/jlink.html[`jlink`]
command that supports assembling a set of modules and their dependencies into a custom
runtime image. The `helidon-maven-plugin` has support for easily creating a custom runtime image for your
Helidon application resulting in a smaller, better performing runtime.

In this guide you will learn how to build a custom runtime image locally on your machine,
as well as how to build it in a Docker image.

== What You Need

|===
|About 10 minutes
| <<about/03_prerequisites.adoc,Helidon Prerequisites>>
|===

== Verify JDK

JDK 11 or newer is required.

[source,bash]
----
$JAVA_HOME/bin/java --version
----

Creating a custom runtime image requires that the JDK modules are present as `*.jmod` files, and some distributions
do not provide them by default. Check the `jmods` directory to ensure they are present:

[source,bash]
----
ls $JAVA_HOME/jmods
----

[TIP]
.OpenJDK on Linux
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Linux_distributions#RPM-based[RPM based] distributions provide `\*.jmod` files in separate
`java-*-openjdk-jmods` packages.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Linux_distributions#Debian-based[Debian based] distributions provide `\*.jmod` files only
in the `openjdk-*-jdk-headless` packages.


== Generate The Project

Generate the project using the Helidon {helidon-uc-flavor} Quickstart Maven archetype.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
mvn -U archetype:generate -DinteractiveMode=false \
    -DarchetypeGroupId=io.helidon.archetypes \
    -DarchetypeArtifactId=helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor} \
    -DarchetypeVersion={helidon-version} \
    -DgroupId=io.helidon.examples \
    -DartifactId=helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor} \
    -Dpackage=io.helidon.examples.quickstart.{helidon-lc-flavor}
----

The archetype generates a Maven project in your current directory
(for example, `helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}`). Change into this directory and build.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
cd helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}
mvn package
----

At this point you can run the application using the JVM:

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
java -jar target/helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}.jar
----

In another shell test an endpoint:

[source,bash]
----
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/greet
----

The application should respond with `{"message":"Hello World!"}`

Now stop the running application (by pressing Ctrl+C).

For more information about the Quickstart application and other enpoints it supports see the
<<{helidon-lc-flavor}/guides/02_quickstart.adoc,Helidon {helidon-uc-flavor} quickstart Guide>>.

== Building a Custom Runtime Image

You can build a custom runtime image in 2 different ways:

* Locally, on your desktop
* Using Docker

=== Local build

Build the custom runtime image using the jlink image profile:

[source,bash]
----
mvn package -Pjlink-image
----

[TIP]
This uses the `helidon-maven-plugin` to perform the custom image generation.

After the build completes it will report some statistics about the build including
the reduction in image size.

The `target/helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}-jri` directory is a self contained
custom image of your application. It contains your application, its runtime
dependencies and the JDK modules it depends on. You can start your application
using the provide
`start` script:

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
./target/helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}-jri/bin/start
----

=== Class Data Sharing (CDS) Archive

Aslo included in the custom image is a Class Data Sharing (CDS) archive that
improves your application's startup performance and in-memory footprint.
You can learn more about Class Data Sharing in the
https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/vm/class-data-sharing.html[JDK documentation].

The CDS archive increases your image size to get these performance optimizations.
It can be of significant size (tens of MB). The size of the CDS archive is
reported at the end of the build output.

If you'd rather have a smaller image size (with a slightly increased startup time) you
can skip the creation of the CDS archive by executing your build like this:

[source,bash]
----
mvn package -Pjlink-image -Djlink.image.addClassDataSharingArchive=false
----

For more information on available configuration options see the
https://github.com/oracle/helidon-build-tools/tree/master/helidon-maven-plugin[`helidon-maven-plugin` documentation].

=== Multi-stage Docker build

To build a Docker image with a custom Java runtime image use the jlink
Dockerfile included with the quickstart.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker build -t helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}-jri -f Dockerfile.jlink .
----

[TIP]
This does a full build inside the Docker container. The first
time you run it, it will take a while because it is downloading all
of the Maven dependencies and caching them in a Docker layer.
Subsequent builds will be much faster as long as you don't change
the `pom.xml` file. If the pom is modified then the dependencies
will be re-downloaded.

Start the application:

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
----
docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 helidon-quickstart-{helidon-lc-flavor}-jri:latest
----

You can exercise the application's endpoints as before.

== When should you use a Custom Runtime Image?

Custom runtime images are ideal for use when you want all of the runtime performance of
the JDK JVM in a reasonably compact form.

For cases where absolute minimal startup time and image size are required, then
consider using <<{helidon-lc-flavor}/guides/36_graalnative.adoc,GraalVM Native Images>>.
