docs/common/guides/metrics.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:description: Helidon metrics
:keywords: helidon, metrics, microprofile, guide
// tag::intro[]
This guide describes how to create a sample Helidon {intro-project-name} project
that can be used to run some basic examples using both built-in and custom metrics with Helidon {h1Prefix}.

== What you need

[width=50%,role="flex, sm7"]
|===
|About 30 minutes
|<<about/03_prerequisites.adoc,Helidon Prerequisites>>
|https://github.com/helm/helm[Helm]
|===

// end::intro[]

// tag::create-sample-project[]
=== Create a sample Helidon {h1Prefix} project

Use the Helidon {h1Prefix} Maven archetype to create a simple project that can be used for the examples in this guide.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
.Run the Maven archetype
----
mvn -U archetype:generate -DinteractiveMode=false \
    -DarchetypeGroupId=io.helidon.archetypes \
    -DarchetypeArtifactId=helidon-quickstart-{lower-case-flavor} \
    -DarchetypeVersion={helidon-version} \
    -DgroupId=io.helidon.examples \
    -DartifactId=helidon-quickstart-{lower-case-flavor} \
    -Dpackage=io.helidon.examples.quickstart.{lower-case-flavor}
----
// end::create-sample-project[]

// tag::using-built-in-metrics-intro[]
=== Using the built-in metrics

Helidon provides three scopes of metrics: base, vendor, and application. Here are the metric endpoints:

1. `/metrics/base` - Base metrics data as specified by the MicroProfile Metrics specification.
2. `/metrics/vendor` - Helidon-specific metrics data.
3. `/metrics/application` - Application-specific metrics data.

NOTE: The `/metrics` endpoint will return data for all scopes.

The following example will demonstrate how to use the built-in metrics.  All examples are executed
from the root directory of your project (helidon-quickstart-{lower-case-flavor}).
// end::using-built-in-metrics-intro[]

// tag::build-and-run-intro[]

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
.Build the application, skipping unit tests, then run it:
----
mvn package -DskipTests=true
java -jar target/helidon-quickstart-{lower-case-flavor}.jar
----

NOTE: Metrics can be returned in either text format (the default), or JSON.  The text format uses Prometheus Text Format,
see https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/#text-format-details.

[source,bash]
.Verify the metrics endpoint in a new terminal window:
----
curl http://localhost:8080/metrics
----
// end::build-and-run-intro[]

// tag::metrics-prometheus-output[]
# TYPE base:classloader_current_loaded_class_count counter
# HELP base:classloader_current_loaded_class_count Displays the number of classes that are currently loaded in the Java virtual machine.
base:classloader_current_loaded_class_count 7511
# TYPE base:classloader_total_loaded_class_count counter
# HELP base:classloader_total_loaded_class_count Displays the total number of classes that have been loaded since the Java virtual machine has started execution.
base:classloader_total_loaded_class_count 7512
...
// end::metrics-prometheus-output[]

// tag::curl-metrics-json[]
You can get the same data in JSON format.

[source,bash]
.Verify the metrics endpoint with an HTTP accept header:
----
curl -H "Accept: application/json"  http://localhost:8080/metrics
----
// end::curl-metrics-json[]

// tag::base-metrics-json-output[]
    "classloader.currentLoadedClass.count": 7534,
    "classloader.totalLoadedClass.count": 7538,
    "classloader.totalUnloadedClass.count": 1,
    "cpu.availableProcessors": 4,
    "cpu.systemLoadAverage": 2.83349609375,
    "gc.PS MarkSweep.count": 2,
    "gc.PS MarkSweep.time": 77,
    "gc.PS Scavenge.count": 5,
    "gc.PS Scavenge.time": 37,
    "jvm.uptime": 727588,
    "memory.committedHeap": 284164096,
    "memory.maxHeap": 3817865216,
    "memory.usedHeap": 53283088,
    "thread.count": 44,
    "thread.daemon.count": 35,
    "thread.max.count": 44
// end::base-metrics-json-output[]
// tag::vendor-metrics-json-output[]
  "vendor": {
    "requests.count": 6,
    "requests.meter": {
      "count": 6,
      "meanRate": 0.008275992296704147,
      "oneMinRate": 0.01576418632772332,
      "fiveMinRate": 0.006695060022357365,
      "fifteenMinRate": 0.0036382699664488415
    }
  }
// end::vendor-metrics-json-output[]

// tag::get-single-metric[]
You can get a single metric by specifying the name in the URL path.

[source,bash]
.Get the Helidon `requests.meter` metric:
----
curl -H "Accept: application/json"  http://localhost:8080/metrics/vendor/requests.meter
----

[source,json]
.JSON response:
----
{
  "requests.meter": {
    "count": 6,
    "meanRate": 0.008275992296704147,
    "oneMinRate": 0.01576418632772332,
    "fiveMinRate": 0.006695060022357365,
    "fifteenMinRate": 0.0036382699664488415
  }
}
----

NOTE: You cannot get the individual fields of a metric. For example, you cannot target http://localhost:8080/metrics/vendor/requests.meter.count.
// end::get-single-metric[]

// tag::KPI[]
==== Key Performance Indicator (KPI) Metrics
Any time you include the Helidon metrics module in your application, Helidon tracks two basic performance indicator metrics:

* a `Counter` of all requests received (`requests.count`), and
* a `Meter` of all requests received (`requests.meter`).

Helidon {h1Prefix} also includes additional, extended KPI metrics which are disabled by default:

* current number of requests in-flight - a `ConcurrentGauge` (`requests.inFlight`) of requests currently being processed
* long-running requests - a `Meter` (`requests.longRunning`) measuring the rate at which Helidon processes requests which take at least a given amount of time to complete; configurable, defaults to 10000 milliseconds (10 seconds)
* load - a `Meter` (`requests.load`) measuring the rate at which requests are worked on (as opposed to received)
* deferred - a `Meter` (`requests.deferred`) measuring the rate at which a request's processing is delayed after Helidon receives the request

You can enable and control these metrics using configuration:
[source,properties]
.Configuration properties file controlling extended KPI metrics
----
metrics.key-performance-indicators.extended = true
metrics.key-performance-indicators.long-running.threshold-ms = 2000
----

ifeval::["{h1Prefix}" == "SE"]
Your Helidon {h1Prefix} application can also control the behavior of the KPI metrics programmatically.

. Prepare a `KeyPerformanceIndicatorSettings` object, using its builder, and then pass the builder when invoking the `MetricsSupport.Builder#keyPerformanceIndicatorMetricsSettings()` method.
. Prepare a `Config` object and pass it to the `MetricsSupport.Builder#keyPerformanceIndicatorMetricsConfig()` method.
+
[source,properties]
+
.Example KPI metrics config fragment
----
extended = true
long-running.threshold-ms = 2000
----
endif::[]

// end::KPI[]

// tag::metrics-metadata[]
=== Metrics metadata

Each metric has associated metadata that describes:

1. name: The name of the metric.
2. units: The unit of the metric such as time (seconds, millisecond), size (bytes, megabytes), etc.
3. type: The type of metric: `Counter`, `Timer`, `Meter`, `Histogram`, `SimpleTimer`, or `Gauge`.

You can get the metadata for any scope, such as `/metrics/base`, as shown below:

[source,bash]
.Get the metrics metadata using HTTP OPTIONS method:
----
 curl -X OPTIONS -H "Accept: application/json"  http://localhost:8080/metrics/base
----

[source,json]
.JSON response (truncated):
----
{
  "classloader.currentLoadedClass.count": {
    "unit": "none",
    "type": "counter",
    "description": "Displays the number of classes that are currently loaded in the Java virtual machine.",
    "displayName": "Current Loaded Class Count"
  },
...
  "jvm.uptime": {
    "unit": "milliseconds",
    "type": "gauge",
    "description": "Displays the start time of the Java virtual machine in milliseconds. This attribute displays the approximate time when the Java virtual machine started.",
    "displayName": "JVM Uptime"
  },
...
  "memory.usedHeap": {
    "unit": "bytes",
    "type": "gauge",
    "description": "Displays the amount of used heap memory in bytes.",
    "displayName": "Used Heap Memory"
  }
}
----

// end::metrics-metadata[]


// tag::k8s-and-prometheus-integration[]

=== Integration with Kubernetes and Prometheus
==== Kubernetes integration
The following example shows how to integrate the Helidon {h1Prefix} application with Kubernetes.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
.Stop the application and build the docker image:
----
docker build -t helidon-metrics-{lower-case-flavor} .
----

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
.Create the Kubernetes YAML specification, named `metrics.yaml`, with the following content:
----
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: helidon-metrics // <1>
  labels:
    app: helidon-metrics
  annotations:
    prometheus.io/scrape: 'true' // <2>
spec:
  type: NodePort
  selector:
    app: helidon-metrics
  ports:
    - port: 8080
      targetPort: 8080
      name: http
---
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
metadata:
  name: helidon-metrics
spec:
  replicas: 1 // <3>
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: helidon-metrics
        version: v1
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: helidon-metrics
          image: helidon-metrics-{lower-case-flavor}
          imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
          ports:
            - containerPort: 8080
----
<1> A service of type `NodePort` that serves the default routes on port `8080`.
<2> An annotation that will allow Prometheus to discover and scrape the application pod.
<3> A deployment with one replica of a pod.


[source,bash]
.Create and deploy the application into Kubernetes:
----
kubectl apply -f ./metrics.yaml
----

[source,bash]
.Get the service information:
----
kubectl get service/helidon-metrics
----

[source,bash]
----
NAME             TYPE       CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
helidon-metrics   NodePort   10.99.159.2   <none>        8080:31143/TCP   8s // <1>
----
<1> A service of type `NodePort` that serves the default routes on port `31143`.

[source,bash]
.Verify the metrics endpoint using port `30116`, your port will likely be different:
----
curl http://localhost:31143/metrics
----

NOTE: Leave the application running in Kubernetes since it will be used for Prometheus integration.

==== Prometheus integration

The metrics service that you just deployed into Kubernetes is already annotated with `prometheus.io/scrape:`.  This will allow
Prometheus to discover the service and scrape the metrics.  In this exercise, you will install Prometheus
into Kubernetes, then verify that it discovered the Helidon metrics in your application.

[source,bash]
.Install Prometheus and wait until the pod is ready:
----
helm install stable/prometheus --name metrics
export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods --namespace default -l "app=prometheus,component=server" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
kubectl get pod $POD_NAME
----

You will see output similar to the following.  Repeat the `kubectl get pod` command until you see `2/2` and `Running`. This may take up to one minute.

[source,bash]
----
metrics-prometheus-server-5fc5dc86cb-79lk4   2/2     Running   0          46s
----

[source,bash]
.Create a port-forward so you can access the server URL:
----
kubectl --namespace default port-forward $POD_NAME 7090:9090
----

Now open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:7090/targets`.  Search for helidon on the page and you will see your
Helidon application as one of the Prometheus targets.

==== Final cleanup

You can now delete the Kubernetes resources that were just created during this example.

[source,bash]
.Delete the Prometheus Kubernetes resources:
----
helm delete --purge metrics
----

[source,bash]
.Delete the application Kubernetes resources:
----
kubectl delete -f ./metrics.yaml
----

// end::k8s-and-prometheus-integration[]

Commit message:

Added prereqs to each guide se/mp (#3168)
* added prereqs to each guide se/mp

* added prereqs to each guide se/mp

* updates to common reqs

* Fix copyright error due to extra blank lines

* fixed copyright issues and bug fixes

* remove junit5 doc from PR

Co-authored-by: tim.quinn@oracle.com <tim.quinn@oracle.com>

docs/common/guides/metrics.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

:description: Helidon metrics
:keywords: helidon, metrics, microprofile, guide
:common-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/common_prereqs/common_prereqs.adoc
:h1Prefix: MP

// tag::intro[]

This guide describes how to create a sample Helidon {intro-project-name} project
that can be used to run some basic examples using both built-in and custom metrics with Helidon.

== What You Need

For this 30 minute tutorial, you will need the following:

include::{common-page-prefix-inc}[tag=common-prereqs-helm]

// end::intro[]

// tag::create-sample-project[]

=== Create a Sample Helidon {h1Prefix} Project

Use the Helidon {h1Prefix} Maven archetype to create a simple project that can be used for the examples in this guide.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
.Run the Maven archetype
----
mvn -U archetype:generate -DinteractiveMode=false \
    -DarchetypeGroupId=io.helidon.archetypes \
    -DarchetypeArtifactId=helidon-quickstart-{lower-case-flavor} \
    -DarchetypeVersion={helidon-version} \
    -DgroupId=io.helidon.examples \
    -DartifactId=helidon-quickstart-{lower-case-flavor} \
    -Dpackage=io.helidon.examples.quickstart.{lower-case-flavor}
----
// end::create-sample-project[]

// tag::using-built-in-metrics-intro[]
=== Using the Built-In Metrics

Helidon provides three scopes of metrics: base, vendor, and application. Here are the metric endpoints:

1. `/metrics/base` - Base metrics data as specified by the MicroProfile Metrics specification.
2. `/metrics/vendor` - Helidon-specific metrics data.
3. `/metrics/application` - Application-specific metrics data.

NOTE: The `/metrics` endpoint will return data for all scopes.

The following example will demonstrate how to use the built-in metrics.  All examples are executed
from the root directory of your project (helidon-quickstart-{lower-case-flavor}).
// end::using-built-in-metrics-intro[]

// tag::build-and-run-intro[]

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
.Build the application, skipping unit tests, then run it:
----
mvn package -DskipTests=true
java -jar target/helidon-quickstart-{lower-case-flavor}.jar
----

NOTE: Metrics can be returned in either text format (the default), or JSON.  The text format uses Prometheus Text Format,
see https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/#text-format-details.

[source,bash]
.Verify the metrics endpoint in a new terminal window:
----
curl http://localhost:8080/metrics
----
// end::build-and-run-intro[]

// tag::metrics-prometheus-output[]
# TYPE base:classloader_current_loaded_class_count counter
# HELP base:classloader_current_loaded_class_count Displays the number of classes that are currently loaded in the Java virtual machine.
base:classloader_current_loaded_class_count 7511
# TYPE base:classloader_total_loaded_class_count counter
# HELP base:classloader_total_loaded_class_count Displays the total number of classes that have been loaded since the Java virtual machine has started execution.
base:classloader_total_loaded_class_count 7512
...
// end::metrics-prometheus-output[]

// tag::curl-metrics-json[]
You can get the same data in JSON format.

[source,bash]
.Verify the metrics endpoint with an HTTP accept header:
----
curl -H "Accept: application/json"  http://localhost:8080/metrics
----
// end::curl-metrics-json[]

// tag::base-metrics-json-output[]
    "classloader.currentLoadedClass.count": 7534,
    "classloader.totalLoadedClass.count": 7538,
    "classloader.totalUnloadedClass.count": 1,
    "cpu.availableProcessors": 4,
    "cpu.systemLoadAverage": 2.83349609375,
    "gc.PS MarkSweep.count": 2,
    "gc.PS MarkSweep.time": 77,
    "gc.PS Scavenge.count": 5,
    "gc.PS Scavenge.time": 37,
    "jvm.uptime": 727588,
    "memory.committedHeap": 284164096,
    "memory.maxHeap": 3817865216,
    "memory.usedHeap": 53283088,
    "thread.count": 44,
    "thread.daemon.count": 35,
    "thread.max.count": 44
// end::base-metrics-json-output[]
// tag::vendor-metrics-json-output[]
  "vendor": {
    "requests.count": 6,
    "requests.meter": {
      "count": 6,
      "meanRate": 0.008275992296704147,
      "oneMinRate": 0.01576418632772332,
      "fiveMinRate": 0.006695060022357365,
      "fifteenMinRate": 0.0036382699664488415
    }
  }
// end::vendor-metrics-json-output[]

// tag::get-single-metric[]
You can get a single metric by specifying the name in the URL path.

[source,bash]
.Get the Helidon `requests.meter` metric:
----
curl -H "Accept: application/json"  http://localhost:8080/metrics/vendor/requests.meter
----

[source,json]
.JSON response:
----
{
  "requests.meter": {
    "count": 6,
    "meanRate": 0.008275992296704147,
    "oneMinRate": 0.01576418632772332,
    "fiveMinRate": 0.006695060022357365,
    "fifteenMinRate": 0.0036382699664488415
  }
}
----

NOTE: You cannot get the individual fields of a metric. For example, you cannot target http://localhost:8080/metrics/vendor/requests.meter.count.
// end::get-single-metric[]

// tag::KPI[]
==== Key Performance Indicator (KPI) Metrics
Any time you include the Helidon metrics module in your application, Helidon tracks two basic performance indicator metrics:

* a `Counter` of all requests received (`requests.count`), and
* a `Meter` of all requests received (`requests.meter`).

Helidon {h1Prefix} also includes additional, extended KPI metrics which are disabled by default:

* current number of requests in-flight - a `ConcurrentGauge` (`requests.inFlight`) of requests currently being processed
* long-running requests - a `Meter` (`requests.longRunning`) measuring the rate at which Helidon processes requests which take at least a given amount of time to complete; configurable, defaults to 10000 milliseconds (10 seconds)
* load - a `Meter` (`requests.load`) measuring the rate at which requests are worked on (as opposed to received)
* deferred - a `Meter` (`requests.deferred`) measuring the rate at which a request's processing is delayed after Helidon receives the request

You can enable and control these metrics using configuration:
[source,properties]
.Configuration properties file controlling extended KPI metrics
----
metrics.key-performance-indicators.extended = true
metrics.key-performance-indicators.long-running.threshold-ms = 2000
----

ifeval::["{h1Prefix}" == "SE"]
Your Helidon {h1Prefix} application can also control the behavior of the KPI metrics programmatically.

. Prepare a `KeyPerformanceIndicatorSettings` object, using its builder, and then pass the builder when invoking the `MetricsSupport.Builder#keyPerformanceIndicatorMetricsSettings()` method.
. Prepare a `Config` object and pass it to the `MetricsSupport.Builder#keyPerformanceIndicatorMetricsConfig()` method.
+
[source,properties]
+
.Example KPI metrics config fragment
----
extended = true
long-running.threshold-ms = 2000
----
endif::[]

// end::KPI[]

// tag::metrics-metadata[]
=== Metrics Metadata

Each metric has associated metadata that describes:

1. name: The name of the metric.
2. units: The unit of the metric such as time (seconds, millisecond), size (bytes, megabytes), etc.
3. type: The type of metric: `Counter`, `Timer`, `Meter`, `Histogram`, `SimpleTimer`, or `Gauge`.

You can get the metadata for any scope, such as `/metrics/base`, as shown below:

[source,bash]
.Get the metrics metadata using HTTP OPTIONS method:
----
 curl -X OPTIONS -H "Accept: application/json"  http://localhost:8080/metrics/base
----

[source,json]
.JSON response (truncated):
----
{
  "classloader.currentLoadedClass.count": {
    "unit": "none",
    "type": "counter",
    "description": "Displays the number of classes that are currently loaded in the Java virtual machine.",
    "displayName": "Current Loaded Class Count"
  },
...
  "jvm.uptime": {
    "unit": "milliseconds",
    "type": "gauge",
    "description": "Displays the start time of the Java virtual machine in milliseconds. This attribute displays the approximate time when the Java virtual machine started.",
    "displayName": "JVM Uptime"
  },
...
  "memory.usedHeap": {
    "unit": "bytes",
    "type": "gauge",
    "description": "Displays the amount of used heap memory in bytes.",
    "displayName": "Used Heap Memory"
  }
}
----

// end::metrics-metadata[]


// tag::k8s-and-prometheus-integration[]

=== Integration with Kubernetes and Prometheus
==== Kubernetes Integration
The following example shows how to integrate the Helidon {h1Prefix} application with Kubernetes.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
.Stop the application and build the docker image:
----
docker build -t helidon-metrics-{lower-case-flavor} .
----

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
.Create the Kubernetes YAML specification, named `metrics.yaml`, with the following content:
----
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: helidon-metrics // <1>
  labels:
    app: helidon-metrics
  annotations:
    prometheus.io/scrape: 'true' // <2>
spec:
  type: NodePort
  selector:
    app: helidon-metrics
  ports:
    - port: 8080
      targetPort: 8080
      name: http
---
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
metadata:
  name: helidon-metrics
spec:
  replicas: 1 // <3>
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: helidon-metrics
        version: v1
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: helidon-metrics
          image: helidon-metrics-{lower-case-flavor}
          imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
          ports:
            - containerPort: 8080
----
<1> A service of type `NodePort` that serves the default routes on port `8080`.
<2> An annotation that will allow Prometheus to discover and scrape the application pod.
<3> A deployment with one replica of a pod.


[source,bash]
.Create and deploy the application into Kubernetes:
----
kubectl apply -f ./metrics.yaml
----

[source,bash]
.Get the service information:
----
kubectl get service/helidon-metrics
----

[source,bash]
----
NAME             TYPE       CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
helidon-metrics   NodePort   10.99.159.2   <none>        8080:31143/TCP   8s // <1>
----
<1> A service of type `NodePort` that serves the default routes on port `31143`.

[source,bash]
.Verify the metrics endpoint using port `30116`, your port will likely be different:
----
curl http://localhost:31143/metrics
----

NOTE: Leave the application running in Kubernetes since it will be used for Prometheus integration.

==== Prometheus Integration

The metrics service that you just deployed into Kubernetes is already annotated with `prometheus.io/scrape:`.  This will allow
Prometheus to discover the service and scrape the metrics.  In this exercise, you will install Prometheus
into Kubernetes, then verify that it discovered the Helidon metrics in your application.

[source,bash]
.Install Prometheus and wait until the pod is ready:
----
helm install stable/prometheus --name metrics
export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods --namespace default -l "app=prometheus,component=server" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
kubectl get pod $POD_NAME
----

You will see output similar to the following.  Repeat the `kubectl get pod` command until you see `2/2` and `Running`. This may take up to one minute.

[source,bash]
----
metrics-prometheus-server-5fc5dc86cb-79lk4   2/2     Running   0          46s
----

[source,bash]
.Create a port-forward so you can access the server URL:
----
kubectl --namespace default port-forward $POD_NAME 7090:9090
----

Now open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:7090/targets`.  Search for helidon on the page and you will see your
Helidon application as one of the Prometheus targets.

==== Final Cleanup

You can now delete the Kubernetes resources that were just created during this example.

[source,bash]
.Delete the Prometheus Kubernetes resources:
----
helm delete --purge metrics
----

[source,bash]
.Delete the application Kubernetes resources:
----
kubectl delete -f ./metrics.yaml
----

// end::k8s-and-prometheus-integration[]
