docs/about/03_prerequisites.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2018, 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= Prerequisites
:description: Helidon pre-requisites
:keywords: helidon

Everything you need to use Helidon is listed here.

== Prerequisites

Helidon requires Java 11 (or newer) and Maven. You need Docker if you
want to build and deploy Docker containers. If you want to
deploy to Kubernetes, you need `kubectl` and a Kubernetes cluster (you can
<<about/05_kubernetes.adoc,install one on your desktop>>).

[role="flex, sm7"]
|=======
|https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads[Java{nbsp}SE{nbsp}11] (http://jdk.java.net[Open{nbsp}JDK{nbsp}11]) or newer
|https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi[Maven 3.6.1+]
|https://docs.docker.com/install/[Docker 18.09+]
|https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/[Kubectl 1.16.5+]
|=======


[source,bash]
.Verify Prerequisites
----
java -version
mvn --version
docker --version
kubectl version --short
----

== Setting JAVA_HOME

[source,bash]
.Setting JAVA_HOME
----
# On Mac
export JAVA_HOME=`/usr/libexec/java_home -v 11`

# On Linux
# Use the appropriate path to your JDK
export JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/jdk-11
----

== Try the Quickstart Examples

Now you are ready to try the Quickstart Examples:

1. <<mp/guides/02_quickstart.adoc,Helidon MP Quickstart Example>>
2. <<se/guides/02_quickstart.adoc,Helidon SE Quickstart Example>>

Commit message:

Docs: Increase visibility of Getting started in Overview

docs/about/03_prerequisites.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2018, 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= Get Started
:description: Helidon pre-requisites and getting started
:keywords: helidon

Everything you need to get started with Helidon is listed here.

== Prerequisites

Helidon requires Java 11 (or newer) and Maven. You need Docker if you
want to build and deploy Docker containers. If you want to
deploy to Kubernetes, you need `kubectl` and a Kubernetes cluster (you can
<<about/05_kubernetes.adoc,install one on your desktop>>).

[role="flex, sm7"]
|=======
|https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads[Java{nbsp}SE{nbsp}11] (http://jdk.java.net[Open{nbsp}JDK{nbsp}11]) or newer
|https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi[Maven 3.6.1+]
|https://docs.docker.com/install/[Docker 18.09+]
|https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/[Kubectl 1.16.5+]
|=======


[source,bash]
.Verify Prerequisites
----
java -version
mvn --version
docker --version
kubectl version --short
----

== Setting JAVA_HOME

[source,bash]
.Setting JAVA_HOME
----
# On Mac
export JAVA_HOME=`/usr/libexec/java_home -v 11`

# On Linux
# Use the appropriate path to your JDK
export JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/jdk-11
----

== Try the Quickstart Examples

Now you are ready to try the Quickstart Examples:

1. <<mp/guides/02_quickstart.adoc,Helidon MP Quickstart Example>>
2. <<se/guides/02_quickstart.adoc,Helidon SE Quickstart Example>>

TIP: See <<about/02_introduction.adoc,About Helidon>>
for more information on the differences between Helidon MP and SE.
