docs/about/05_cli.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020, 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= Helidon CLI
:description: Helidon CLI
:keywords: helidon cli

== Introduction

The Helidon CLI lets you easily create a Helidon project by picking from a
set of archetypes. It also supports a developer loop that performs continuous
compilation and application restart, so you can easily iterate over source
code changes.

The CLI is distributed as a standalone executable (compiled using GraalVM) for
ease of installation. It is currently available as download for Linux and Mac.
Simply download the binary, install it at a location accessible from your PATH
and you’re ready to go.

== Installation

[source,bash]
.MacOS
----
curl -O https://helidon.io/cli/latest/darwin/helidon
chmod +x ./helidon
sudo mv ./helidon /usr/local/bin/
----

[source,bash]
.Linux
----
curl -O https://helidon.io/cli/latest/linux/helidon
chmod +x ./helidon
sudo mv ./helidon /usr/local/bin/
----

[source,powershell]
.Windows
----
PowerShell -Command Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://helidon.io/cli/latest/windows/helidon.exe" -OutFile "C:\Windows\system32\helidon.exe"
----

== Create a New Project

[source,bash]
----
helidon init
----

Then answer the questions.

== Developer Loop

[source,bash]
----
cd myproject
helidon dev
----

As you make source code changes the project will automatically recompile and restart your
application.


== Demo

image::cli/Helidon_cli.gif[CLI Demo, align="center"]

Commit message:

Docs: Add prereqs to CLI page (#2958)
* Add prereqs to CLI page
* Update HELIDON-CLI.md and README.md with prereq and windows info

docs/about/05_cli.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020, 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= Helidon CLI
:description: Helidon CLI
:keywords: helidon cli

== Introduction

The Helidon CLI lets you easily create a Helidon project by picking from a
set of archetypes. It also supports a developer loop that performs continuous
compilation and application restart, so you can easily iterate over source
code changes.

The CLI is distributed as a standalone executable (compiled using GraalVM) for
ease of installation. It is currently available as a download for Linux, Mac and Windows.
Simply download the binary, install it at a location accessible from your PATH
and you’re ready to go.

== Prerequisites

Helidon requires Java 11 (or newer) and Maven.

[role="flex, sm7"]
|=======
|https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads[Java{nbsp}SE{nbsp}11] (http://jdk.java.net[Open{nbsp}JDK{nbsp}11]) or newer
|https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi[Maven 3.6.1+]
|=======

You should make sure `java` and `mvn` are in your path.

[source,bash]
----
java -version
mvn --version
----

== Installation

[source,bash]
.MacOS
----
curl -O https://helidon.io/cli/latest/darwin/helidon
chmod +x ./helidon
sudo mv ./helidon /usr/local/bin/
----

[source,bash]
.Linux
----
curl -O https://helidon.io/cli/latest/linux/helidon
chmod +x ./helidon
sudo mv ./helidon /usr/local/bin/
----

[source,powershell]
.Windows
----
PowerShell -Command Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://helidon.io/cli/latest/windows/helidon.exe" -OutFile "C:\Windows\system32\helidon.exe"
----

== Create a New Project

[source,bash]
----
helidon init
----

Then answer the questions.

== Developer Loop

[source,bash]
----
cd myproject
helidon dev
----

As you make source code changes the project will automatically recompile and restart your
application.


== Demo

image::cli/Helidon_cli.gif[CLI Demo, align="center"]
