examples/dbclient/mongodb/README.md, before:

# Helidon DB Client mongoDB Example

This example shows how to run Helidon DB over mongoDB.


## Build

```
mvn package
```

## Run

This example requires a mongoDB database, start it using docker:

```
docker run --rm --name mongo -p 27017:27017 mongo
```

Then run the application:

```
java -jar target/helidon-examples-dbclient-mongodb.jar
```

 
## Exercise

The application has the following endpoints:

- http://localhost:8079/db - the main business endpoint (see `curl` commands below)
- http://localhost:8079/metrics - the metrics endpoint (query adds application metrics)
- http://localhost:8079/health - has a custom database health check

Application also connects to zipkin on default address.
The query operation adds database trace.

`curl` commands:

- `curl http://localhost:8079/db` - list all Pokemon in the database
- `curl -i -X PUT -d '{"name":"Squirtle","type":"water"}' http://localhost:8079/db` - add a new pokemon
- `curl http://localhost:8079/db/Squirtle` - get a single pokemon
- `curl -i -X DELETE http://localhost:8079/db/Squirtle` - delete a single pokemon
- `curl -i -X DELETE http://localhost:8079/db` - delete all pokemon

The application also supports update and delete - see `PokemonService.java` for bound endpoints.

---

Pokémon, and Pokémon character names are trademarks of Nintendo.

Commit message:

Blocking DB Client clean up, javadoc, and examples
Signed-off-by: Dmitry Aleksandrov <dmitry.aleksandrov@oracle.com>

examples/dbclient/mongodb/README.md, after:

# Helidon DB Client mongoDB Example

This example shows how to run Helidon DB over mongoDB.


## Build

```
mvn package
```

## Run

This example requires a mongoDB database, start it using docker:

```
docker run --rm --name mongo -p 27017:27017 mongo
```

Then run the application:

```
java -jar target/helidon-examples-dbclient-mongodb.jar
```

 
## Exercise

The application has the following endpoints:

- http://localhost:8079/db - the main business endpoint (see `curl` commands below)
- http://localhost:8079/metrics - the metrics endpoint (query adds application metrics)
- http://localhost:8079/health - has a custom database health check

Application also connects to zipkin on default address.
The query operation adds database trace.

`curl` commands:

- `curl http://localhost:8079/db` - list all Pokemon in the database
- `curl -i -X PUT -d '{"name":"Squirtle","type":"water"}' http://localhost:8079/db` - add a new pokemon
- `curl http://localhost:8079/db/Squirtle` - get a single pokemon
- `curl -i -X DELETE http://localhost:8079/db/Squirtle` - delete a single pokemon
- `curl -i -X DELETE http://localhost:8079/db` - delete all pokemon
- `curl http://localhost:8079/blockigdb` - list all Pokemon in the database in a blocking way
- `curl -i -X DELETE http://localhost:8079/blockingdb` - delete all pokemon in a blocking way

The application also supports update and delete - see `PokemonService.java` for bound endpoints.

---

Pokémon, and Pokémon character names are trademarks of Nintendo.
