docs/mp/guides/04_health.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2019, 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= Helidon MP Health Check Guide
:h1Prefix: MP
:description: Helidon health-checks
:keywords: helidon, health-checks, health, check

This guide describes how to create a sample MicroProfile (MP) project
that can be used to run some basic examples using both built-in and custom health-checks with Helidon MP.

== What you need

[width=50%,role="flex, sm7"]
|===
|About 15 minutes
|<<about/03_prerequisites.adoc,Helidon Prerequisites>>
|===

=== Create a sample MP project

Generate the project sources using the Helidon MP Maven archetype.
The result is a simple project that can be used for the examples in this guide.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
.Run the Maven archetype:
----
mvn -U archetype:generate -DinteractiveMode=false \
    -DarchetypeGroupId=io.helidon.archetypes \
    -DarchetypeArtifactId=helidon-quickstart-mp \
    -DarchetypeVersion={helidon-version} \
    -DgroupId=io.helidon.examples \
    -DartifactId=helidon-quickstart-mp \
    -Dpackage=io.helidon.examples.quickstart.mp
----

=== Using the built-in health-checks

Helidon has a set of built-in health-checks that are automatically enabled to report various
health-check statuses that are commonly used:

* deadlock detection
* available disk space
* available heap memory

The following example will demonstrate how to use the built-in health-checks.  These examples are all executed
from the root directory of your project (helidon-quickstart-mp).

[source,bash]
.Build the application, skipping unit tests, then run it:
----
mvn package -DskipTests=true
java -jar target/helidon-quickstart-mp.jar
----

[source,bash]
.Verify the health endpoint in a new terminal window:
----
curl http://localhost:8080/health
----

[source,json]
.JSON response:
----
{
  "outcome": "UP",
  "status": "UP",
  "checks": [
    {
      "name": "deadlock",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP"
    },
    {
      "name": "diskSpace",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP",
      "data": {
        "free": "325.54 GB",
        "freeBytes": 349543358464,
        "percentFree": "69.91%",
        "total": "465.63 GB",
        "totalBytes": 499963174912
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "heapMemory",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP",
      "data": {
        "free": "230.87 MB",
        "freeBytes": 242085696,
        "max": "3.56 GB",
        "maxBytes": 3817865216,
        "percentFree": "98.90%",
        "total": "271.00 MB",
        "totalBytes": 284164096
      }
    }
  ]
}
----

NOTE: In MicroProfile Health 2.0 `outcome` and `state` were replaced by `status` in the JSON response wire format.
Helidon currently provides both fields for backwards compatibility, but use of `outcome` and `state` is deprecated
and will be removed in a future release. You should rely on `status` instead.

=== Custom liveness health-checks

You can create application-specific custom health-checks and integrate them with Helidon
using CDI.  The following example shows how to add a custom liveness health-check.

[source,java]
.Create a new `GreetLivenessCheck` class with the following content:
----
package io.helidon.examples.quickstart.mp;

import javax.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.HealthCheck;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.HealthCheckResponse;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.Liveness;

@Liveness // <1>
@ApplicationScoped // <2>
public class GreetLivenessCheck implements HealthCheck {
  private GreetingProvider provider;

  @Override
  public HealthCheckResponse call() {
    return HealthCheckResponse.named("LivenessCheck")  // <3>
        .up()
        .withData("time", System.currentTimeMillis())
        .build();
  }
}
----
<1> Annotation indicating this is a liveness health-check.
<2> Annotation indicating there is a single liveness `HealthCheck` object during the lifetime of the application.
<3> Build the HealthCheckResponse with status `UP` and the current time.

[source,bash]
.Build and run the application, then verify the custom liveness health endpoint:
----
curl http://localhost:8080/health/live
----

[source,json]
.JSON response:
----
{
  "outcome": "UP",
  "status": "UP",
  "checks": [
    {
      "name": "LivenessCheck",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP",
      "data": {
        "time": 1566338255331
      }
    }
  ]
}
----

=== Custom readiness health-check

You can add a readiness check to indicate that the application is ready to be used.  In this
example, the server will wait five seconds before it becomes ready.

[source,java]
.Create a new `GreetReadinessCheck` class with the following content:
----

package io.helidon.examples.quickstart.mp;

import java.time.Duration; // <1>
import java.util.concurrent.atomic.AtomicLong;
import javax.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;

import javax.enterprise.context.Initialized;
import javax.enterprise.event.Observes;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.HealthCheck;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.HealthCheckResponse;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.Readiness;

@Readiness // <2>
@ApplicationScoped
public class GreetReadinessCheck implements HealthCheck {
  private AtomicLong readyTime = new AtomicLong(0);


  @Override
  public HealthCheckResponse call() {
    return HealthCheckResponse.named("ReadinessCheck")  // <3>
        .state(isReady())
        .withData("time", readyTime.get())
        .build();
  }

  public void onStartUp(
      @Observes @Initialized(ApplicationScoped.class) Object init) {
    readyTime = new AtomicLong(System.currentTimeMillis()); // <4>
  }

  /**
   * Become ready after 5 seconds
   *
   * @return true if application ready
   */
  private boolean isReady() {
    return Duration.ofMillis(System.currentTimeMillis() - readyTime.get()).getSeconds() >= 5;
  }
}
----
<1> Include additional imports.
<2> Annotation indicating that this is a readiness health-check.
<3> Build the `HealthCheckResponse` with status `UP` after five seconds, else `DOWN`.
<4> Initialize the time at startup.


[source,bash]
.Build and run the application.  Issue the curl command with -v within five seconds and you will see that the application is not ready:
----
curl -v  http://localhost:8080/health/ready
----

[source,json]
.HTTP response:
----
...
< HTTP/1.1 503 Service Unavailable // <1>
...
{
  "outcome": "DOWN",
  "status": "DOWN",
  "checks": [
    {
      "name": "ReadinessCheck",
      "state": "DOWN",
      "status": "DOWN",
      "data": {
        "time": 1566399775700
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
<1> The HTTP status is `503` since the application is not ready.

[source,bash]
.After five seconds you will see the application is ready:
----
curl -v http://localhost:8080/health/ready
----

[source,json]
.JSON response:
----
...
< HTTP/1.1 200 OK // <1>
...
{
  "outcome": "UP",
  "status": "UP",
  "checks": [
    {
      "name": "ReadinessCheck",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP",
      "data": {
        "time": 1566399775700
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
<1> The HTTP status is `200` indicating that the application is ready.

When using the health-check URLs, you can get the following health-check data:

* custom liveness only - http://localhost:8080/health/live
* custom readiness only -  http://localhost:8080/health/ready
* all health-check data -  http://localhost:8080/health

[source,bash]
.Get all the health-check data, including custom data:
----
curl http://localhost:8080/health
----

[source,json]
.JSON response:
----
{
  "outcome": "UP",
  "status": "UP",
  "checks": [
    {
      "name": "LivenessCheck",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP",
      "data": {
        "time": 1566403431536
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "ReadinessCheck",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP",
      "data": {
        "time": 1566403280639
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "deadlock",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP"
    },
    {
      "name": "diskSpace",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP",
      "data": {
        "free": "325.50 GB",
        "freeBytes": 349500698624,
        "percentFree": "69.91%",
        "total": "465.63 GB",
        "totalBytes": 499963174912
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "heapMemory",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP",
      "data": {
        "free": "231.01 MB",
        "freeBytes": 242235928,
        "max": "3.56 GB",
        "maxBytes": 3817865216,
        "percentFree": "98.79%",
        "total": "275.00 MB",
        "totalBytes": 288358400
      }
    }
  ]
}
----


=== Custom health root path and port

You can specify a custom port and root context for the root health endpoint path.
However, you cannot use different ports, such as http://localhost:8080/myhealth and http://localhost:8081/myhealth/live.
Likewise, you cannot use different paths, such as http://localhost:8080/health and http://localhost:8080/probe/live.

The example below will change the root path.

[source,yaml]
.Create a file named `application.yaml` in the `resources` directory with the following contents:
----
health:
  web-context: "myhealth"  // <1>
----
<1> The web-context specifies a new root path for the health endpoint.

[source,bash]
.Build and run the application, then verify that the health endpoint is using the new `/myhealth` root:
----
curl http://localhost:8080/myhealth
curl http://localhost:8080/myhealth/live
curl http://localhost:8080/myhealth/ready
----

The following example will change the root path and the health port.

[source,yaml]
.Update application.yaml to use a different port and root path for the health endpoint:
----
server:
  port: 8080  // <1>
  host: "localhost"
  sockets:
    health: // <2>
      port: 8081 // <3>
      bind-address: "localhost"
health:
  routing: "health" // <4>
  web-context: "myhealth"
----
<1> The default port for the application.
<2> The name of the new socket, it can be any name, this example uses `health`.
<3> The port for the new health socket.
<4> The health endpoint routing uses the new socket `health`.


[source,bash]
.Build and run the application, then verify the health endpoint using port `8081` and `/myhealth`:
----
curl http://localhost:8081/myhealth
curl http://localhost:8081/myhealth/live
curl http://localhost:8081/myhealth/ready
----

=== Using Liveness and Readiness health-checks with Kubernetes

The following example shows how to integrate the Helidon health API with an application that implements
health endpoints for the Kubernetes liveness and readiness probes.

*Delete the contents of `application.yaml` so that the default health endpoint path and port are used.*

[source,bash]
.Rebuild and start the application, then verify the health endpoint:
----
curl http://localhost:8080/health
----

[source,bash]
.Stop the application and build the docker image:
----
docker build -t helidon-quickstart-mp .
----

[source,yaml]
.Create the Kubernetes YAML specification, named `health.yaml`, with the following content:
----
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: helidon-health // <1>
  labels:
    app: helidon-health
spec:
  type: NodePort
  selector:
    app: helidon-health
  ports:
    - port: 8080
      targetPort: 8080
      name: http
---
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
metadata:
  name: helidon-health // <2>
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: helidon-health
        version: v1
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: helidon-health
          image: helidon-quickstart-mp
          imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
          ports:
            - containerPort: 8080
          livenessProbe:
            httpGet:
              path: /health/live // <3>
              port: 8080
            initialDelaySeconds: 5 // <4>
            periodSeconds: 10
            timeoutSeconds: 3
            failureThreshold: 3
          readinessProbe:
            httpGet:
              path: /health/ready // <5>
              port: 8080
            initialDelaySeconds: 5 // <6>
            periodSeconds: 2
            timeoutSeconds: 3
---
----
<1> A service of type `NodePort` that serves the default routes on port `8080`.
<2> A deployment with one replica of a pod.
<3> The HTTP endpoint for the liveness probe.
<4> The liveness probe configuration.
<5> The HTTP endpoint for the readiness probe.
<6> The readiness probe configuration.


[source,bash]
.Create and deploy the application into Kubernetes:
----
kubectl apply -f ./health.yaml
----

[source,bash]
.Get the service information:
----
kubectl get service/helidon-health
----

[source,bash]
----
NAME             TYPE       CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
helidon-health   NodePort   10.107.226.62   <none>        8080:30116/TCP   4s // <1>
----
<1> A service of type `NodePort` that serves the default routes on port `30116`.

[source,bash]
.Verify the health endpoints using port '30116', your port may be different. The JSON response will be the same as your previous test:
----
curl http://localhost:30116/health
----

[source,bash]
.Delete the application, cleaning up Kubernetes resources:
----
kubectl delete -f ./health.yaml
----

=== Summary
This guide demonstrated how to use health-check in a Helidon MP application as follows:

* Access the default health-check
* Create and use custom readiness and liveness checks
* Customize the health-check root path and port
* Integrate Helidon health-check with Kubernetes

Please refer to the following references for additional information:

* MicroProfile health-check specification at https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-health/releases/tag/2.0
* MicroProfile health-check Javadoc at https://javadoc.io/doc/org.eclipse.microprofile.health/microprofile-health-api/2.0
* Helidon Javadoc at https://helidon.io/docs/latest/apidocs/index.html?overview-summary.html

Commit message:

Added prereqs to each guide se/mp (#3168)
* added prereqs to each guide se/mp

* added prereqs to each guide se/mp

* updates to common reqs

* Fix copyright error due to extra blank lines

* fixed copyright issues and bug fixes

* remove junit5 doc from PR

Co-authored-by: tim.quinn@oracle.com <tim.quinn@oracle.com>

docs/mp/guides/04_health.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2019, 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= Helidon MP Health Check Guide
:h1Prefix: MP
:description: Helidon health-checks
:keywords: helidon, health-checks, health, check
:common-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/common_prereqs/common_prereqs.adoc

This guide describes how to create a sample MicroProfile (MP) project
that can be used to run some basic examples using both built-in and custom health checks with Helidon MP.

== What You Need

For this 15 minute tutorial, you will need the following:

include::{common-page-prefix-inc}[tag=common-prereqs]

=== Create a Sample MP Project

Generate the project sources using the Helidon MP Maven archetype.
The result is a simple project that can be used for the examples in this guide.

[source,bash,subs="attributes+"]
.Run the Maven archetype:
----
mvn -U archetype:generate -DinteractiveMode=false \
    -DarchetypeGroupId=io.helidon.archetypes \
    -DarchetypeArtifactId=helidon-quickstart-mp \
    -DarchetypeVersion={helidon-version} \
    -DgroupId=io.helidon.examples \
    -DartifactId=helidon-quickstart-mp \
    -Dpackage=io.helidon.examples.quickstart.mp
----

=== Using the Built-In Health Checks

Helidon has a set of built-in health checks that are automatically enabled to report various
health check statuses that are commonly used:

* deadlock detection
* available disk space
* available heap memory

The following example will demonstrate how to use the built-in health checks.  These examples are all executed
from the root directory of your project (helidon-quickstart-mp).

[source,bash]
.Build the application, skipping unit tests, then run it:
----
mvn package -DskipTests=true
java -jar target/helidon-quickstart-mp.jar
----

[source,bash]
.Verify the health endpoint in a new terminal window:
----
curl http://localhost:8080/health
----

[source,json]
.JSON response:
----
{
  "outcome": "UP",
  "status": "UP",
  "checks": [
    {
      "name": "deadlock",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP"
    },
    {
      "name": "diskSpace",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP",
      "data": {
        "free": "325.54 GB",
        "freeBytes": 349543358464,
        "percentFree": "69.91%",
        "total": "465.63 GB",
        "totalBytes": 499963174912
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "heapMemory",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP",
      "data": {
        "free": "230.87 MB",
        "freeBytes": 242085696,
        "max": "3.56 GB",
        "maxBytes": 3817865216,
        "percentFree": "98.90%",
        "total": "271.00 MB",
        "totalBytes": 284164096
      }
    }
  ]
}
----

NOTE: In MicroProfile Health 2.0 `outcome` and `state` were replaced by `status` in the JSON response wire format.
Helidon currently provides both fields for backwards compatibility, but use of `outcome` and `state` is deprecated
and will be removed in a future release. You should rely on `status` instead.

=== Custom Liveness Health Checks

You can create application-specific custom health checks and integrate them with Helidon
using CDI.  The following example shows how to add a custom liveness health check.

[source,java]
.Create a new `GreetLivenessCheck` class with the following content:
----
package io.helidon.examples.quickstart.mp;

import javax.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.HealthCheck;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.HealthCheckResponse;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.Liveness;

@Liveness // <1>
@ApplicationScoped // <2>
public class GreetLivenessCheck implements HealthCheck {
  private GreetingProvider provider;

  @Override
  public HealthCheckResponse call() {
    return HealthCheckResponse.named("LivenessCheck")  // <3>
        .up()
        .withData("time", System.currentTimeMillis())
        .build();
  }
}
----
<1> Annotation indicating this is a liveness health check.
<2> Annotation indicating there is a single liveness `HealthCheck` object during the lifetime of the application.
<3> Build the HealthCheckResponse with status `UP` and the current time.

[source,bash]
.Build and run the application, then verify the custom liveness health endpoint:
----
curl http://localhost:8080/health/live
----

[source,json]
.JSON response:
----
{
  "outcome": "UP",
  "status": "UP",
  "checks": [
    {
      "name": "LivenessCheck",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP",
      "data": {
        "time": 1566338255331
      }
    }
  ]
}
----

=== Custom Readiness Health Check

You can add a readiness check to indicate that the application is ready to be used.  In this
example, the server will wait five seconds before it becomes ready.

[source,java]
.Create a new `GreetReadinessCheck` class with the following content:
----

package io.helidon.examples.quickstart.mp;

import java.time.Duration; // <1>
import java.util.concurrent.atomic.AtomicLong;
import javax.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;

import javax.enterprise.context.Initialized;
import javax.enterprise.event.Observes;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.HealthCheck;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.HealthCheckResponse;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.health.Readiness;

@Readiness // <2>
@ApplicationScoped
public class GreetReadinessCheck implements HealthCheck {
  private AtomicLong readyTime = new AtomicLong(0);


  @Override
  public HealthCheckResponse call() {
    return HealthCheckResponse.named("ReadinessCheck")  // <3>
        .state(isReady())
        .withData("time", readyTime.get())
        .build();
  }

  public void onStartUp(
      @Observes @Initialized(ApplicationScoped.class) Object init) {
    readyTime = new AtomicLong(System.currentTimeMillis()); // <4>
  }

  /**
   * Become ready after 5 seconds
   *
   * @return true if application ready
   */
  private boolean isReady() {
    return Duration.ofMillis(System.currentTimeMillis() - readyTime.get()).getSeconds() >= 5;
  }
}
----
<1> Include additional imports.
<2> Annotation indicating that this is a readiness health-check.
<3> Build the `HealthCheckResponse` with status `UP` after five seconds, else `DOWN`.
<4> Initialize the time at startup.


[source,bash]
.Build and run the application.  Issue the curl command with -v within five seconds and you will see that the application is not ready:
----
curl -v  http://localhost:8080/health/ready
----

[source,json]
.HTTP response:
----
...
< HTTP/1.1 503 Service Unavailable // <1>
...
{
  "outcome": "DOWN",
  "status": "DOWN",
  "checks": [
    {
      "name": "ReadinessCheck",
      "state": "DOWN",
      "status": "DOWN",
      "data": {
        "time": 1566399775700
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
<1> The HTTP status is `503` since the application is not ready.

[source,bash]
.After five seconds you will see the application is ready:
----
curl -v http://localhost:8080/health/ready
----

[source,json]
.JSON response:
----
...
< HTTP/1.1 200 OK // <1>
...
{
  "outcome": "UP",
  "status": "UP",
  "checks": [
    {
      "name": "ReadinessCheck",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP",
      "data": {
        "time": 1566399775700
      }
    }
  ]
}
----
<1> The HTTP status is `200` indicating that the application is ready.

When using the health check URLs, you can get the following health check data:

* custom liveness only - http://localhost:8080/health/live
* custom readiness only -  http://localhost:8080/health/ready
* all health check data -  http://localhost:8080/health

[source,bash]
.Get all the health check data, including custom data:
----
curl http://localhost:8080/health
----

[source,json]
.JSON response:
----
{
  "outcome": "UP",
  "status": "UP",
  "checks": [
    {
      "name": "LivenessCheck",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP",
      "data": {
        "time": 1566403431536
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "ReadinessCheck",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP",
      "data": {
        "time": 1566403280639
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "deadlock",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP"
    },
    {
      "name": "diskSpace",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP",
      "data": {
        "free": "325.50 GB",
        "freeBytes": 349500698624,
        "percentFree": "69.91%",
        "total": "465.63 GB",
        "totalBytes": 499963174912
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "heapMemory",
      "state": "UP",
      "status": "UP",
      "data": {
        "free": "231.01 MB",
        "freeBytes": 242235928,
        "max": "3.56 GB",
        "maxBytes": 3817865216,
        "percentFree": "98.79%",
        "total": "275.00 MB",
        "totalBytes": 288358400
      }
    }
  ]
}
----


=== Custom Health Root Path and Port

You can specify a custom port and root context for the root health endpoint path.
However, you cannot use different ports, such as http://localhost:8080/myhealth and http://localhost:8081/myhealth/live.
Likewise, you cannot use different paths, such as http://localhost:8080/health and http://localhost:8080/probe/live.

The example below will change the root path.

[source,yaml]
.Create a file named `application.yaml` in the `resources` directory with the following contents:
----
health:
  web-context: "myhealth"  // <1>
----
<1> The web-context specifies a new root path for the health endpoint.

[source,bash]
.Build and run the application, then verify that the health endpoint is using the new `/myhealth` root:
----
curl http://localhost:8080/myhealth
curl http://localhost:8080/myhealth/live
curl http://localhost:8080/myhealth/ready
----

The following example will change the root path and the health port.

[source,yaml]
.Update application.yaml to use a different port and root path for the health endpoint:
----
server:
  port: 8080  // <1>
  host: "localhost"
  sockets:
    health: // <2>
      port: 8081 // <3>
      bind-address: "localhost"
health:
  routing: "health" // <4>
  web-context: "myhealth"
----
<1> The default port for the application.
<2> The name of the new socket, it can be any name, this example uses `health`.
<3> The port for the new health socket.
<4> The health endpoint routing uses the new socket `health`.


[source,bash]
.Build and run the application, then verify the health endpoint using port `8081` and `/myhealth`:
----
curl http://localhost:8081/myhealth
curl http://localhost:8081/myhealth/live
curl http://localhost:8081/myhealth/ready
----

=== Using Liveness and Readiness Health Checks with Kubernetes

The following example shows how to integrate the Helidon health check API with an application that implements
health endpoints for the Kubernetes liveness and readiness probes.

*Delete the contents of `application.yaml` so that the default health endpoint path and port are used.*

[source,bash]
.Rebuild and start the application, then verify the health endpoint:
----
curl http://localhost:8080/health
----

[source,bash]
.Stop the application and build the docker image:
----
docker build -t helidon-quickstart-mp .
----

[source,yaml]
.Create the Kubernetes YAML specification, named `health.yaml`, with the following content:
----
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: helidon-health // <1>
  labels:
    app: helidon-health
spec:
  type: NodePort
  selector:
    app: helidon-health
  ports:
    - port: 8080
      targetPort: 8080
      name: http
---
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
metadata:
  name: helidon-health // <2>
spec:
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: helidon-health
        version: v1
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: helidon-health
          image: helidon-quickstart-mp
          imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
          ports:
            - containerPort: 8080
          livenessProbe:
            httpGet:
              path: /health/live // <3>
              port: 8080
            initialDelaySeconds: 5 // <4>
            periodSeconds: 10
            timeoutSeconds: 3
            failureThreshold: 3
          readinessProbe:
            httpGet:
              path: /health/ready // <5>
              port: 8080
            initialDelaySeconds: 5 // <6>
            periodSeconds: 2
            timeoutSeconds: 3
---
----
<1> A service of type `NodePort` that serves the default routes on port `8080`.
<2> A deployment with one replica of a pod.
<3> The HTTP endpoint for the liveness probe.
<4> The liveness probe configuration.
<5> The HTTP endpoint for the readiness probe.
<6> The readiness probe configuration.


[source,bash]
.Create and deploy the application into Kubernetes:
----
kubectl apply -f ./health.yaml
----

[source,bash]
.Get the service information:
----
kubectl get service/helidon-health
----

[source,bash]
----
NAME             TYPE       CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
helidon-health   NodePort   10.107.226.62   <none>        8080:30116/TCP   4s // <1>
----
<1> A service of type `NodePort` that serves the default routes on port `30116`.

[source,bash]
.Verify the health endpoints using port '30116', your port may be different. The JSON response will be the same as your previous test:
----
curl http://localhost:30116/health
----

[source,bash]
.Delete the application, cleaning up Kubernetes resources:
----
kubectl delete -f ./health.yaml
----

=== Summary
This guide demonstrated how to use health checks in a Helidon MP application as follows:

* Access the default health checks
* Create and use custom readiness and liveness checks
* Customize the health check root path and port
* Integrate Helidon health check API with Kubernetes

Refer to the following references for additional information:

* MicroProfile health-check specification at https://github.com/eclipse/microprofile-health/releases/tag/2.0
* MicroProfile health-check Javadoc at https://javadoc.io/doc/org.eclipse.microprofile.health/microprofile-health-api/2.0
* Helidon Javadoc at https://helidon.io/docs/latest/apidocs/index.html?overview-summary.html
