docs/mp/guides/38_se_services.adoc, before:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= Reusing Helidon SE services
:h1Prefix: MP
:description: Helidon Reactive Routing
:keywords: helidon, guide, routing
:helidon-uc-flavor: MP
:helidon-lc-flavor: mp

This guide shows how reuse Helidon SE Service in your Helidon MP application.

== What You Need

|===
|About 10 minutes
|<<about/03_prerequisites.adoc,Helidon Prerequisites>>
|<<mp/guides/02_quickstart.adoc,A Helidon MP application, such as Helidon MP Quickstart>>
|===

Helidon MP supports <<mp/jaxrs/10_reactive-routing.adoc, Reactive routing>> which brings possibility for reusing
`io.helidon.webserver.Service` implementations in Helidon MP. Such feature can be quite useful for common
solutions for filtering, auditing, logging or augmenting REST endpoints in hybrid Helidon SE/MP environment.

Let's define simple Helidon SE Service for adding special header to every REST response:

[source,java]
----
public class CoolingService implements Service, Handler {

    public static final String COOL_HEADER_NAME = "Cool-Header";
    public static final String COOLING_VALUE = "This is way cooler response than ";

    @Override
    public void update(Routing.Rules rules) {
        rules.any(this);
    }

    @Override
    public void accept(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
        res.headers().add(COOL_HEADER_NAME, COOLING_VALUE);
        req.next();
    }
}
----

Its easy to use it with Helidon SE:

[source,java]
----
WebServer.builder(Routing.builder()
                    // register service with routing path
                    .register("/cool", new CoolingService())
                    .build())
                .config(config)
                .addMediaSupport(JsonpSupport.create())
                .build()
                .start();
----

And not much harder to use it with Helidon MP:

[source,java]
----
@ApplicationScoped
public class MyBean {

    @Produces
    @ApplicationScoped
    @RoutingPath("/cool")
    public Service coolService() {
        return new CoolingService();
    }

}
----

You can leverage annotations:

* @RoutingPath - path of the WebServer service
* @RoutingName - select routing when <<mp/jaxrs/02_server-configuration.adoc#conf-additional-ports,serving requests on multiple ports>>

Commit message:

Added prereqs to each guide se/mp (#3168)
* added prereqs to each guide se/mp

* added prereqs to each guide se/mp

* updates to common reqs

* Fix copyright error due to extra blank lines

* fixed copyright issues and bug fixes

* remove junit5 doc from PR

Co-authored-by: tim.quinn@oracle.com <tim.quinn@oracle.com>

docs/mp/guides/38_se_services.adoc, after:

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    Copyright (c) 2020, 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

= Reusing Helidon SE services
:h1Prefix: MP
:description: Helidon Reactive Routing
:keywords: helidon, guide, routing
:helidon-uc-flavor: MP
:helidon-lc-flavor: mp
:common-page-prefix-inc: ../../shared/common_prereqs/common_prereqs.adoc

This guide shows how reuse Helidon SE Service in your Helidon MP application.

== What You Need

For this 10 minute tutorial, you will need the following:

include::{common-page-prefix-inc}[tag=common-prereqs]

Helidon MP supports <<mp/jaxrs/10_reactive-routing.adoc, Reactive routing>> which brings possibility for reusing
`io.helidon.webserver.Service` implementations in Helidon MP. Such feature can be quite useful for common
solutions for filtering, auditing, logging or augmenting REST endpoints in hybrid Helidon SE/MP environment.

Let's define simple Helidon SE Service for adding special header to every REST response:

[source,java]
----
public class CoolingService implements Service, Handler {

    public static final String COOL_HEADER_NAME = "Cool-Header";
    public static final String COOLING_VALUE = "This is way cooler response than ";

    @Override
    public void update(Routing.Rules rules) {
        rules.any(this);
    }

    @Override
    public void accept(ServerRequest req, ServerResponse res) {
        res.headers().add(COOL_HEADER_NAME, COOLING_VALUE);
        req.next();
    }
}
----

Its easy to use it with Helidon SE:

[source,java]
----
WebServer.builder(Routing.builder()
                    // register service with routing path
                    .register("/cool", new CoolingService())
                    .build())
                .config(config)
                .addMediaSupport(JsonpSupport.create())
                .build()
                .start();
----

And not much harder to use it with Helidon MP:

[source,java]
----
@ApplicationScoped
public class MyBean {

    @Produces
    @ApplicationScoped
    @RoutingPath("/cool")
    public Service coolService() {
        return new CoolingService();
    }

}
----

You can leverage annotations:

* @RoutingPath - path of the WebServer service
* @RoutingName - select routing when <<mp/jaxrs/02_server-configuration.adoc#conf-additional-ports,serving requests on multiple ports>>
